- connected with the extraction of capital and security of investment which equals value 
- Reliance on previous already successful examples [[Precedent (Recognition) +]] [[Self-referential +]] 

Pictorial practices nowadays perform as coping mechanisms in situations of self-doubt when uncertainty creeps in to question the core of our decisions and presumptions as designers, threatening the futurity of our brain-child. That is when we seek shelter in pictorial practice, it provides “stability” and assurance, presumed due to its longstanding reign as a template for rightness stemming from the tradition of the Western-centric episteme of positivist thinking obsessed with logic and control. [[Representation]] is how we cope in the face of uncertainty. "Geometry is logotherapy for spatial stuttering. It endows architectural intuition with reason, and foundation in that geometry offers certainty in situations beset with doubt. Architectural representation and its geometries are there to reassure the architect for every paralysing instance where the absolute futurity of architecture manifests itself" (Kousoulas 2023, 29). When seen as steaming from a sort of fixed essence, geometric language tends towards objectivism - the ideological parody of objectivity - self-assurance, and certainty about the sovereign subject's grip on the real (Mitchell 2005, 157). In a disciplinary or regulating mechanism involving the built environment, the transmission of these essences to future generations through drawing provides the continuity of knowledge (Kent Fitzsimons 2010, 16) . "We first arrive at science as research when and only when truth has been transformed into the certainty of representation. What it is to be is for the first time defined as the objectiveness of representing, and truth is first defined as the certainty of representing, in the metaphysics of Descartes.[...] With Descartes, representation loses its mimetic and phenomenological value and becomes the guarantor of truth. From this point onwards in the history of Occidental thought, representation does not mean showing or viewing a picture, but rather it is treated as a diagram that defines the conditions of possibility that allow one to grasp the world as an image. Representation therefore performs a dual function: on the one hand, it establishes the human subject as a rational being capable of objectifying the world, yet on the other hand it limits the ability to know the world only to those aspects of it that can be rationally represented" (Rubinstein and Sluis 2013, 25-6).

"Construction is bound up with the material reality of the society it is part of, its legislated frameworks, industrial practices and supply chains" (Material cultures 2024, 16). To reach construction, the design must already have delivered reliable outcomes. At this point, its rightness, which is equated to profit, is already taken as given. In their capacity to produce quantifiable and predictable outcomes that guarantee profit in a calculable future, pictorial practices seem peculiarly well suited to facilitate the process of generating a design and to guarantee its “rightness”. "People involved in making buildings can feel trapped by these conditions, as attempts to build differently are halted at every turn by obstacles which are both practical and cultural - habit and risk aversion, standardisation and warranties, costing and specification, financing and insurance, gaps in the supply of materials, machinery or skilled workers, a lack of appetite or capacity to look after buildings that require different regiments of care. Working with non-standard materials sets you outside of most of the infrastructures that support and regulate construction, which means that designers and builders are held more accountable for the decisions they make. Those of us making buildings outside mainstream practice cannot outsource responsibility for the performance of the building to manufacturers, systems of standardisation and installation guidelines. The only option is for designers and builders themselves to take on significantly more responsibility for the risk, directly disincentivizing the testing and development that is needed to move construction practice forward" (Material cultures 2024, 16-7). This conditions "every invention or artistic endeavour to be predictably saleable as a commodity which results in profound limitations on the possibility of artistic or technological experimentation since every creation is yoked in advance to the ‘form-intention’ of profit. Experimentation only registers as risk, and only the safest bets are made, usually on the recycling of themes and motifs that have ‘proven’ to be successful" (Fritz 2021, 26) which leads to an increasing self-referential practice. "The state of affairs is the product of a democratic culture anxious about liability, which has enclosed the power to produce architecture inside a proprietary fortress" (Material cultures. 2024, 66), where necessary maintenance and repairs are considered signs of failure. It is also part of a culture where architects no longer design with materials but rather with packaged, proprietary products. This only strengthens the hold of commodification over the building industry, where use value gives way to economic value, certification and risk aversion.

When architecture is seen as a language, "creation consists in the masterful composition of aggregate forms, drawing on a preexisting vocabulary of combinable elementary forms. Creation is an individual expression of the artist at the same time as it accedes to universality. [...] Forms become elementary and elementary forms are “words” signifying “universal” principles of fixity(Massumi 1998, 4). When architectural relations are seen as "emanating from some essence, then a kind of stable equilibrium appears to be reached: there is no metastability, no potential for becoming, and indeed no change or history—just fixed essences"(Fritz 2021, 9). This mode of thinking exemplifies the modernist ideal that is founded on “universal”, Western-centric, abstract, truths that are the result of the long-lasting project of enlightenment. However, "drawing is not writing and architecture does not speak" (Evans 2000, xxxvi).

