- include operational images 
- the a-signifying sign in a Deleuzian sense, functioning by and through percepts and affects rather than a system of representation
- The asignifying or processual sign-form of the onto-topological turn catalyses experiential potential rather than meaning. (Massumi 1998,19)
- Likewise, in Farocki's treatment of operational images, what matters is not what these images mean (the message they convey), but rather their specific function as part of a technical process and an institutional network of power. What Farocki teaches us is that the relation between images and power in contemporary capitalism should not be reduced to the representational and signifying perspective of ideology. Rather, asignifying images reproduce a given power relation based on their non-representational "organizational nature". Therefore, the question we are left with is not what a particular image means or represents, but what function it fulfils within a given social machine. (Celis Bueno 2017)
- Operational approaches provide promising possibilities for rethinking images for at least three reasons: first, they offer dynamic approaches that analyze phenomena into doings and happenings rather than into things and static entities; second, they offer relational approaches that conceive identity in terms of open-ended processes of becoming; and third, by so doing, they allow us to ascribe agency to images, and crucially, to conceive agency as distributed across interconnected assemblages of people, practices, and mediating artifacts. (Hoel and Lindseth 2016, 178)

 "The discourse on operational images calls attention to the highly consequential yet often invisible activity of images - their organising and (infra)structural power" (Hoel 2021, 121). "The relation between images and power in contemporary capitalism should not be reduced their the representational and signifying perspective. Rather, asignifying images reproduce a given power relation based on their non-representational "organisational nature”. Therefore, the question we are left with is not what a particular image means or represents, but what function it fulfils within a given social machine" (Celis Bueno 2017). Translated to architectural terms, this means to tap into the operational character of architectural representation to understand how it performs and what it does. The Operational lens offers a dynamic approach that analyses phenomena into doings and happenings rather than into things and static entities, it offers relational approaches that conceive identity in terms of open-ended processes of becoming, and, by so doing, it allows us to ascribe agency to images, and crucially, to conceive agency as distributed across interconnected assemblages of people, practices, and mediating artefacts  (Hoel and Lindseth 2016, 178). ""To get a grip on this power we shall rethink images as apparatuses in the dual sense of material appliance and theoretical dispositif" (Hoel 2021, 121). 