In a Deleuzian sense, the a-signifying sign operates through percepts and affects rather than through a system of [[Representation]]. This approach aligns with the concept of operational images, which highlights the significant yet often unnoticed power of images in organizing and structuring our world (Hoel 2021, 121) and establish our sense of [[Contemporaneity]]. Similarly, Harun Farocki's work on operational images focuses not on what these images mean but on their role within technical processes and institutional power structures. Farocki shows us that in contemporary capitalism, the relationship between images and power should not be confined to the realm of representation and ideology. Instead, asignifying images maintain power relations through their organizational nature, implicit in the [[Technological Substructures +]] that support them. Therefore, the critical question is "not what an image represents, but what function it serves within a social machine" (Celis Bueno 2017).

Applying this to architecture, we should consider the operational character of architectural representation to understand how it functions and what it accomplishes.This operational perspective promotes dynamic approaches that analyze phenomena as actions and events rather than static entities. (Hoel and Lindseth 2016, 178). The question shifts from "What is representation?" and "What constitutes representation?", to "What representation does?". How do the everyday practices of architecture manipulate and distribute [[Affect]]? What [[Abstraction]]s condition architectural production? Is there an underlying [[Complicity]] to processes such as the [[Industrialisation of the Symbolic]]?  Following Aurora Hoel, in order to understand the power of the operational character of images, that an a-signifying lens makes visible, we have to approach images as "dual-purpose apparatuses" both as material tools and theoretical constructs (Hoel 2021, 121). 

[[index]]