The process of forming a concept by separating it from the sensible reality that stimulated its formation. (Aurieli 2023, viii)

Although abstractions are fabricated by the human mind, the stimulus motivating their formation comes from outside the mind. Therefore, abstractions are not timeless, but contingent on given social and political conditions.(Aurieli 2023, ix)

This dream of disembodied production is as far from the truth now as it was then, but manufacturers, designers and design educators clued in maintaining this vision when they relate to materials as abstractions to be specified, not substances to be produced. (Material cultures, 2024,40)

Here, as Didier Debaise suggests in conversation with Isabelle Doucet and Benedikte Zitouni, to abstract meaning is to extract something from a creature’s milieu, which is an act of interpretation of that milieu (Doucet, Debaise and Zitouni 2018), to affect and to be affected by a milieu. Abstraction, according to this definition, comes after, and not before, an experience-based engagement amidst an environment-world. Great care needs to be taken in this process lest everything is lost and nothing is learnt, like a designer who deploys a paltry metaphor for a project that gets him nowhere. (Frichot 2019, 110)

In this context. the question of architectural abstraction, whether in representation or in building. takes on an entirely new significance. For what seems to be at stake is the instability provoked between the new formal vocabularies generated by the computer and their easy translation into built form. so as to produce. almost siinultaneously, an image as architecture and architecture as image. (Vidler 2000, 17)

However, while cybernetics-information, communication-is a result of extreme functional abstraction paradoxically, it provides the extreme of verisimilitude, in the simulacra that the computer makes possible. (Allen and Agrest 2000, 176) 

The most obvious manifestation of the architecture of the city is solid things, but their coming into being and their functioning is largely dependent on a multitude of abstractions such as design methods, representational conventions (plans and sections, for example), proportions, functions, building codes, measurements, and Onancial parameters. In confronting this reality, it makes almost no sense to try to discern and separate the “concrete” from the “abstract,” since within capitalism the two are so profoundly intertwined that we can speak of a unique condition in which abstraction is concrete and the concrete—even the most physically tangible object—is always an instance of the abstract. (Aurieli 2023,)

Through the importance of a form of reasoning in which geometry, calculus, economics, and the management of resources play an important role, abstraction becomes concrete within architectural form. Form is no longer the outcome of individual craft, but the result of a socialized “intellectual” knowledge made of abstract conventions—such as the use of projections and precise systems of measurement. (Aurieli, 2023)

In both applications of design, drawing was a device that abstraction that distance labourers from the active design. Abstraction manifested through drawing initially claimed a stake in the production of buildings, but it later infiltrated the planning of cities and territories. Planning on the large scale requires the reduction of concrete things into measurable increments. Introductory procedures, cartography, statistics, and building codes translate the concrete, lived experience of reality into the certainty of data.  (Aurieli 2023, 86)

abstraction is ultimately the outcome not only of technocratic organisation but also in the hegemony of exchange value: a process in which everything that exists is subject to a system of representation that allows quantification and calculation of profit. (Aurieli 2023, xvi)