Abstraction is the process of separating a concept from the sensible reality in which it is embedded. Therefore they are not universal, or timeless. They are created by the human mind, however, in order this process to happen an external stimuli is required. In other words, abstractions are contingent on the external social and political condition them (Aurieli 2023, viii-ix). 

From a design perspective, both notational and affective output serve as a tool of abstraction, distancing labourers from the active design process, and thereby providing the necessary distance in production which allowed for the conception of the figure of the architect and therefore architecture as a profession. Initially, this abstraction through drawing played a role only in building production. However the throughout centuries it found its way up, eventually extending to large-scale city and territory planning, which require the reduction of tangible reality into measurable units, using tools like cartography, statistics, and building codes to transform lived experiences into quantifiable data (Aurieli 2023, 86). The creation and functioning of the physical structures of the city are highly dependent on numerous abstractions, including design methods, representational conventions, proportions, functions, building codes, measurements, and financial parameters. In this context, trying to separate the "concrete" from the "abstract" is nearly meaningless, as they are so deeply intertwined within capitalism that abstraction becomes concrete, and the concrete always represents some form of abstraction (Aurieli 2018). Ultimately, abstraction arises not only from technocratic organization but also from the dominance of exchange value, subjecting everything to a system of representation that enables quantification and profit calculation (Aurieli 2023, xvi).

In [[Contemporary Architectural Labour]] the abstractions that govern the politics of production and distribution of architectural knowledge and output are tucked under layers and layers of bureaucratic, technical, cultural, and practical circumstances that we take as a given. Many of them appear to be obscured, hidden, forgotten, or impossible to understand. An appropriate example are CAD and BIM softwares, which are the concoction of an extreme amount of functional abstractions, that paradoxically enable an almost perfect structural simulacra of the designed object, or its surroundings (Allen and Agrest 2000, 176). It follows that the material processes that are propelled by the realisation of a design proposal are conditioned by an abstracted version of reality, which is in turn dependent on completely different technological abstractions that make it possible, which are in turn a result of the abstractions that enable the extraction and transportation of goods, which are in turn dependent on the abstraction of exchange value, which is dependent on ... and so on, and so on. 

What is lost in this serial process of abstraction is precisely its contingency on the environments that necessitate it. Fundamentally abstraction is the process of the a-posteriori becoming a-priori. As Frichot (2019, 110) points out, "Abstraction, according to this definition, comes after, and not before, an experience-based engagement amidst an environment-world. Great care needs to be taken in this process lest everything is lost and nothing is learnt, like a designer who deploys a paltry metaphor for a project that gets him nowhere." Here lies the danger of blindly taking for granted the conditions in which we produce, without questioning their formation. Unfortunately, lost in the sea of abstractions, we have become accustomed to the idea of disembodied production. The chain of material extraction, transportation, manufacturing, and implementation on site, along with the hundreds of hours in human labour, is reduced to the simple action of product specification from the comfort of an office chair (Material cultures, 2024,40).
