Although lacking a clear understating of how images circulate and perform, one thing that architects are very well aware of is the affective potential of images and their capacity to perform as visual forms of rhetoric, both of which they have used and abused plenty. At this point, it would be useful to clearly define what is affect. Claire Colebrook gives a very succinct account, affect is different from affection, “an affect is that which would be felt,” (Boumestteer, 2019, p.70) or as in the words of Deleuze himself, “affect becomes sensation, sentiment, emotion, or even impulse” (Deleuze, 1997, p.97.) It is exactly this emotional affect that architects seek and are very skilled at enabling through sophisticated pictorial techniques. Hence, the apt observation made by Fichot (2014, p.166) that as architects “we are disciplined to be affective labourers.” She goes on to explain that in the context of the explicitly hierarchal power dynamics within educational facilities architects-to-be are in a situation where they are expected to produce “aesthetic responses to ready-made problems with predetermined answers,” making it a clear example of the application of a [[Dogmatic Image of Thought +]] and the [[(Re)Assurance (Rightness,Risk and Architecture as language) +]] of its perpetuation. The signs are evident - avoiding errors, sticking to what is already known and discarding that which does not comply as wrong. Students are quick to learn that affective images can secure the approval of a critic or a tutor and this attitude is transferred into the professional sphere where the target of approval is simply redirected to clients, and current or future employers. The affective [[Image]] becomes a right of passage to the next stage of the architect’s career, it acts as proof of the necessary skillset that is required to put to work the power of affect.

Perhaps the most celebrated example of affective imagery is the atmospheric render - the renderilla’s area of expertise. It is what Deleuze described early on, much earlier than the post-production revolution in architecture, in his book “Cinema 1: The Movement-Image” as “[[Any-space-whatsoever]]”.
