The Simondonian notion finds its initial cause in reductive mental forms such as hylomorphic schemas - when an abstract form is imposed on seemingly passive and inert matter - which is often a starting point for many architects and is deemed traditional within the practice. The self-referential and rigid nature of representational practice, embedded in standard architectural tools and techniques, limits its capacity to capture the complexity of the design process, excluding conflicting demands, legal constraints, budgeting, and other critical aspects. This practice of opportunistic sifting distances the representational output from its associated milieu, which becomes problematic because it limits the possible formation of new relations and actively forecloses alternative futures, further perpetuating the myth of the architect as an autonomous creative agent and overshadowing the interconnected and complex realities of architectural practice.

_Distance_ emerges as the link between representation and alienation. The former is only effective if there is distance, segregation, a physical or temporal gap between the experiential register and its communication with others, the latter thrives on it. Distance here can be interpreted both as the physical discrepancy between the architect and the site in question or as the segregation of labour and the allocation of functions to different agents in the sphere of the built environment. Showing all the alarming symptoms of alienation, the flattening of chosen characteristics of a physical site into an intelligible diagram creates a curated version of reality, which is prioritised over the physical site due to its pliability from a distance. The danger here lies in the displacement of physical space with its representational counterpart and presuming that the two are interchangeable. The victims of such pitfall intervene in the sterilised representational simulacrum, which is artificially closed off from outside contingent forces, and unable to absorb any difference other than that which the architect itself deems appropriate, assuming that this intervention will translate seamlessly into its “interchangeable” counterpart. When actualised, architectural objects inherit the rigid, artificially enclosed nature of their production and remain incapable of accommodating the contingent nature of their situated milieu. It follows that the closed system of representation exacerbates the alienated state of the architectural profession, hindering its ability to engage with real-world challenges.

Estranged from the processes that govern the production of their output, architectural practitioners remain aloof from their environment. This alienated condition is a result of the [[Representation]]al mode of production that dominates the profession. As image production became the principal mode of output it brought with it a very complex modernist heritage that still heavily influences the profession. The isolated mode of production, the tabula rasa, the veneration of [[Abstraction +]], and architecture as a language that can communicate “universal values and laws” and so on are deeply embedded in the representational techniques and tools that we apply and are visible everywhere today, albeit in a mutated state due to their coupling with contemporary forms of capital extraction. The result is disconnected and desensitised subjects that remain shortsighted not only to the processes that shape their output but also to the wider implications of their work. I also want to make something clear, I am not against conventions and recognise their importance, however, I am against accepting them as universal because we seem to have forgotten that they are also a product of collective agreement and therefore subject to change.

In his essay "Alienation beyond the human: From Marx to Simondon", Carson Fritz (2021, p.26-7) explains that according to Simondon, the initial cause of alienation can be found in reductive mental forms such as [[Hylomorphic Schemas +]] - when an abstract form is imposed on seemingly passive and inert matter - which is often a starting point for many architects and is deemed traditional within the practice. In their reliance on and upkeep of abstract universal truths, I find a curious connection between Simondon’s “alienation” and Deleuze’s “[[Dogmatic Image of Thought +]]. Such forms of reductive thinking are fundamentally disconnected from their associated milieu, which becomes problematic once they start limiting the possible formation of new relations and actively foreclose alternative futures (Fritz, 2021, p.26-7). I find it necessary to trace the thread of alienation, and therefore invite you on a short detour where we can investigate how it has resulted in the confinement of the architectural profession. Throughout this process, we will expose the problematics entangled in architectural [[Representation]] as either a cause or a consequence of alienation. The critical analysis of the issues can be divided into two categories. The first is concerned with the enclosed, [[Self-referential +]] and [[Ultra-stable +]] nature of representational systems, while the second is concerned with the obscured influence of the [[Technological Substructures +]] and our inability to understand the tools we use.

Through a lengthy process of division of labour and adherence to economic regimes, architects have distanced themselves from processes such as building regulations, material availability, socio-political issues etc., that condition the design process long before a brief arrives at their desk. Often literally isolated from our associated milieu we continue to search for “solutions” to problems posed by fluctuating, open systems while employing rigid, [[Hylomorphic Schemas +]], and linear means of design ([[Linear Perspective]], [[Image-Object Fixation]]). 

Both categories of alienation - the [[Ultra-stable +]], [[Self-referential +]], closed systems and technological (en)framing - have played their part in the constitution of some very persistent and widespread conceptions of the role of the architect. They have valorised form-finding exercises that are often combined with partly metaphors to legitimise design (Frichot, 2019, p.108). All the while, as Antoine Picone (2004, p.13) points out, the whole design process remains contained “in the head of the architect”, who nevertheless claims the output to be of public service, which fundamentally contradicts its isolated conception. All of that is visible in the popular description of the heroic figure of the architect as an “autonomous creative agent’ in the words of Massumi (1998, p.3), whose elevated and inspired vision is capable of moulding abstract architectural objects and “artfully dropping” them into the environment, thereby improving it. However, as both Massumi and Guattari demystify such conceptions, what we are left with is the figure of the Architect-[[Primate +]], alienated from its surroundings and the modes of production that govern its work, which remains self-contained and shortsighted, its gaze only reaching what is right in front of it - a screen, a toolbox … an image.

Following the issues observed in the previous sections, [[Representation]] emerges as the meeting point of an immense amount of architectural issues that are manifested in pictorial practices, whose behaviour and modes of production we fail to grasp, ultimately resulting in alienation. The question remains, how to battle alienation? The first step is to recognise that in its commercial, contemporary incarnation, architecture is predominantly occupied with image production. However, the next step, which is more of an expedition, is to begin grappling with image ontology and epistemology, understanding its inherent qualities and processes that shape it. Finally, this begs the question, what is an [[Image]]?
