An “any-space-whatsoever” is no longer particularly determined with fixed coordinates but is constructed to best fit the requirements of the pursued [[Affect]] (Deleuze, 1997, p.109). This type of [[Representation]] finds common use in what Hal Foster calls “image building”, or when architects are hired to produce eye-catching yet servile and appeasing architecture (Oxvig, 2019, p.174). It also adheres to the principles of the problematics appropriation of “frontal ontology”. The term introduced by David Michael Levin describes the tendency, which is also embedded in traditional [[Signifying Semiotics +]], to contain experience to the decoding of messages, which are supposedly engrained within the contents of the visual. When translated to the built environment and the architectural object becomes a subject of decoding, we no longer experience space but become mere spectators of it (Pallasmaa, 2012, p.33). Here we can draw a clear connection to what Baudrillard calls “hyper-reality” - the representation of the object becomes more important than the object itself. In the case of the atmospheric render, space is no longer represented as it is, but it becomes space as we can make it. The render, or “the money shot” as Frichot (2014, p.169) refers to it, is a carefully curated, privileged point of view that highlights the potentialities of space. As such, it is also a child of [[Alienation]], because as Deleuze points out (1997, p.120), the “any-spaces-whatever” are spaces of pure potential, they are independent “of the state of things or milieux which actualise them.”

 
