Images, including architectural representation, are a form of archival practice and as such adhere to the ontological principles of archives outlined by Foucault and Derrida. Following this line of thought, archives, although exclusively preoccupied with the past and its preservation, are oriented towards the ordering of the future (Eisner 2013, 135). The ways we choose to remember and the things we choose to remember, condition the structure of the archive, which in turn informs what is rememberable and vice versa. This reciprocal relationship is largely informative of the social unconscious and influences how we perceive, understand, and construct ourselves today, and how we might project ourselves in the future. Transcending mere accounting, archival practice becomes formative of the parameters and guidelines of perception. An example close to home is the notion of measurement, which produces not only a way to physically assess a phenomenon but also yields a novel manner to understand and relate to our surroundings. Similarly, technics such as linear perspective, isometric projections, sketching, rendering, collaging etc. can be understood as archival practices that delimit perception and carry over the implications that conditioned their conception.

Being an [[Ultra-stable +]], closed, and [[Self-referential +]] system, architectural [[Representation]] remembers and is remembered exclusively through a defined range of practices that have gained a canonical status. In its inability to allow for difference within its system, representation is reliant only on what can be recognised and what can be made intelligible through the already established modes of production. Consequently, a large portion of the practices that cannot be presented through the recognised pictorial practices remain obscured. For example, "Supply chains champion end products. The bodies, systems and ecosystems that produce materials on which the defendant continues to be overlooked misrepresented or erased" (Material culture 2024, 41-3). Given all of this, that mode of remembrance is similar to the prevalent institutionalised mode of archiving, where the archive is continuously safeguarded, sanitised, polished and able to present only a very particular version of the truth. Architectural [[Image]]ry, in its conservative archival form that is responsible for transmitting knowledge, embodies the incredibly opportunistic mindset that has celebrated [[Abstraction +]] and its embodiment as an architectural object, while systematically excluding alternative modes of recording which are capable of elucidating networks of production and other modes of doing. This highlights the incapacity of the striated to engage with the complexities of the smooth. In such systems, "abstract and quantifiable systems of knowledge are privileged over embodied knowledge or inherited knowledge, and all systems in effect that cannot easily be measured by current technologies remain outside the field of concern" (Material cultures 2024, 73).

This is the space that concerns pure and applied sciences, mathematics, computer modeling, and so on. These are not erroneous conceptions of a fantasmatic space, but rather are the necessary and practical facilitations of the real we need in order to make it conform to our needs, which merely out- line or highlight space and objects rather than understand their interlinkages. It could be argued that the function of architecture, which in many senses lies midway between science and art, between practical interest and artistic reverie, is transitional: it is to render the first, smooth space amenable to the needs expressed and required by our occupation of striated space. Architecture could be understood as the mode of conversion of one kind of space into another. (Grosz 2003, 83-4)

"If the archival moment took place already before the performance started, the law that governs the performance and the work positions itself before and above the production of the first piece of documentary evidence and shapes it without allowing the evidence to shape it in turn" (van der Meijden 2013, 99). Abstraction should come after, and not before, an experience-based engagement amidst an environment-world (Frichot 2019, 110)