- the architectural project as a combination of the notational and the affective. 
There is a visible division between the two general types of architectural output - notational and [[Affect]]ive - and their corresponding [[Primate +]]s. The notational - comprised of plans, sections, details, material specifications etc. - falls within the realm of the “CAD-monkey” and the “BIM-panzee”, while the affective - comprised of atmospheric renders, collages, perspective sections, exploded axonometrics etc. - is taken upon by the “renderillas” and “oraxotans”. The former type takes the form of a notational device whose aim is to secure the proper execution of architectural thought and is primarily accessible only to those literate in architectural notation. For that reason, it mainly circulates between professionals within the built environment. The latter is aimed at affective communication with a wider range of recipients, including professionals within the sphere and the larger public such as clients, governmental bodies, or anyone willing to look at it. Therefore, it focuses on the evocation of emotional responses (i.e. desires, sensations, arousals). One should of course be able to swap between the roles of the different species, or perform a symbolic inter-specie evolution if you will, to be recognised as a complex and well-rounded designer, therefore being able to attend both the notational and the affective.

While we may attribute the meteoric rise of the affective [[Image]] to the proliferation of [[Post-production +]] softwares and their increasing compatibility with contemporary architectural tools, it would be diminutive to disregard the impact of technology when it comes to notational images. In his essay “Everything is Already an Image” John May makes the compelling argument that we are way past orthographic production, and in fact producing in a [[Post-orthographic]] regime.

The capacity to plan (organise large masses of workers and mobile resources) is architecture's political precondition (Aurieli 2023, 2). "Through reasoning, architecture becomes a way of contemplating the world, where - as in rhetoric – what is created is not simply an object but discourse itself" (Aurieli 2023, 18). "Orthogonality exclusively guaranteed design precision and thus was critical to the architect's authorship of architecture" (Aurieli 2023, 48), "the heightened abstraction of drawing as a measurable notation divided head and hand in the formation of architecture, and imposed a design mentality rooted in methods of geometry and mathematics" (Aurieli 2023, 50). 

"project is understood as the main locus of abstraction because its working presupposes the reduction of reality to the exactitude of measure, geometry, and later the relentless quantifying logic of money. (Aurieli 2023, xxi)




