Images, including architectural representation, are a form of [[Mnemotechnics]], and therefore, adhere to the ontological principles of archives outlined by Foucault and Derrida. Following this line of thought, archives, although exclusively preoccupied with the past and its preservation, are oriented towards the ordering of the future (Eisner 2013, 135). The ways we choose to remember and the things we choose to remember, condition the structure of the archive, which in turn informs what is rememberable and vice versa. This reciprocal relationship is largely informative of the social unconscious and influences how we perceive, understand, and construct ourselves today, and how we might project ourselves in the future. Transcending mere accounting, archival practice becomes formative of the parameters and guidelines of perception. An example close to home is the notion of measurement, which produces not only a way to physically assess a phenomenon but also yields a novel manner to understand and relate to our surroundings. Similarly, technics such as [[Linear Perspective]], isometric projections, sketching, rendering, collaging etc. can be understood as archival practices that delimit perception and carry over the implications that conditioned their conception.

Being an [[Ultra-stable]], closed, and [[Self-referential +]] system, architectural [[Representation]] remembers and is remembered exclusively through a defined range of practices that have gained a canonical status. In its inability to allow for difference within its system, representation is reliant only on what can be recognised and what can be made intelligible through the already established modes of production. Consequently, a large portion of the practices that cannot be presented through the recognised pictorial practices remain obscured. For example, "Supply chains champion end products. The bodies, systems and ecosystems that produce materials on which the defendant continues to be overlooked misrepresented or erased" (Material culture 2024, 41-3). Given all of this, that mode of remembrance is similar to the prevalent institutionalised mode of archiving, where the archive is continuously safeguarded, sanitised, polished and able to present only a very particular version of the truth. Architectural [[Image]]ry, in its conservative archival form that is responsible for transmitting knowledge, embodies the incredibly opportunistic mindset that has celebrated [[Abstraction]] and its embodiment as an architectural object, while systematically excluding alternative modes of recording which are capable of [[Elucidating]] networks of production and other modes of doing. Furthermore, the archival moment in architectural production traditionally takes place before the execution. Architectural technics are deployed before the moment of production shaping the outcome without allowing evidence that accumulates during production to shape it back in turn (Frichot 2019, 110). Additionally, none of the [[Second-Order Effects +]] that will later on leave their mark on the "finished products" can be recorded, or acknowledged. In such systems, "abstract and quantifiable systems of knowledge are privileged over embodied knowledge or inherited knowledge, and all systems in effect that cannot easily be measured by current technologies remain outside the field of concern" (Material cultures 2024, 73). 


[[index]]