There is a visible division between the two general types of architectural output that comprise a project - notational and [[Affect]]ive - and their corresponding [[Primate]]s. The notational - comprised of plans, sections, details, material specifications etc. - falls within the realm of the “CAD-monkey” and the “BIM-panzee”, while the affective - comprised of atmospheric renders, collages, perspective sections, exploded axonometrics etc. - is taken upon by the “Renderillas” and “Oraxotans”. The former type takes the form of a notational device whose aim is to secure the proper execution of architectural thought and is primarily accessible only to those literate in architectural notation. For that reason, it mainly circulates between professionals within the built environment. The latter is aimed at affective communication with a wider range of recipients, including professionals within the sphere and the larger public such as clients, governmental bodies, or anyone willing to look at it. Therefore, it focuses on the evocation of emotional responses (i.e. desires, sensations, arousals). One should of course be able to swap between the roles of the different species, or perform a symbolic inter-specie evolution if you will, to be recognised as a complex and well-rounded designer, therefore being able to attend both the notational and the affective. 

While we may attribute the meteoric rise of the affective [[Image]], or the [[Any-space-whatsoever]], to the proliferation of post-production softwares and their increasing compatibility with contemporary architectural tools, it would be diminutive to disregard the impact of technology when it comes to notational images. In his essay “Everything is Already an Image” John May makes the compelling argument that we are way past orthographic production, and in fact producing in a [[Post-orthographic]] . The traces of this shift are evident in the [[Reciprocity]] between the proliferation of architectural imagery and the apparatuses that enable them and how they inform each others evolution.  

To emerge as a concept, the architectural project required the opening of a gap between the planning and execution of architectural thought. This was secured by the [[Abstraction]] of physical space, its [[Quantification and Operationalisation]], and recording in the form of orthographic drawing. Orthogonality ensured design precision and was therefore secured the "architect's authorship of architecture" (Aurieli 2023, 48). The "heightened abstraction of drawing" divided the intellectual and manual aspects of architecture, originating a design mentality rooted in geometry and mathematics (Aurieli 2023, 50). Endowed with newly-found objectivity and reason, this new form of architectural rhetoric became a new way of seeing the world through a projective lens. Therefore, as Pier Vittorio Aurieli puts it, "The capacity to plan (organise large masses of workers and mobile resources) became architecture's political precondition" (Aurieli 2023, 2).  Fast forward to nowadays, where, in the context of [[Contemporary Architectural Labour]], the jurisdiction of the architect has been strictly confined to the project, which in its abstractive capacity is able to reduce reality "to the exactitude of measure, geometry, and later the relentless quantifying logic of money" (Aurieli 2023, xxi). 




