Within a capitalist mode of [[Post-orthographic]] production, everything is measured by its ability to be shown and therefore capitalised on. What is seen as profitable is often conditioned by the information (images) that already circulate in our environment. Hence, capital gain is related to the repetition of [[Precedent (Recognition) +]]s which have proven to be successful. In this system, experimentation, whether artistic or technological, is seen as a risk. As Carol Fritz (2021, p.26-7) points out in his essay “Alienation Beyond the Human”, in a state of [[Alienation]], the potential for novelty is smothered and futures are foreclosed. When “every invention or artistic endeavour must be predictably saleable as a commodity”, any sort of intervention will necessarily adhere to the dogmatic governing forces preventing future possibilities for becoming. That is the most severe consequence of all, the seemingly inevitable imaging of alternative futures. It is not a clearly defined utopian and egalitarian future that is at stake, because, as Fritz (2021, p.27) reminds us, “It is not so much that becoming is inherently good, but rather that the obstruction of becoming is generally unhealthy or dangerous.” 

"Durand’s prescriptive method, where architecture is deconstructed into its constituent elements, results in the deskilling of design. What Durant offers is an economy of form to professionals who have to design architecture in great quantities." (Aurieli 2023, 81)

"Accordingly, in order to become a commodity, space must have been subjected to systems of representation and procedures that allow it to be divided, measured, and compared." (Stanek 2008, 70-1)

Very easily our creative gestures and image-making practices are co-opted towards the neoliberal ends of market Capitalism, where the affective labour of images operate in a reciprocal, disjunctive relation with the concepts and discursive statements architects enunciate, producing a disciplinary-wide dogmatic image of thought that has been vastly facilitated by the speed and efficiency of new media platforms. The risk here lies in how easily quasi-architectural images prescribe realities, foreclosing how future peoples, places, things and their admixtures might express themselves. (Frichot 2014, 163)

Furthermore, "the affective atmospheres procured by way of both architectural and advertising imagery contribute to a ‘noopolitics’ that results in the insatiable overconsumption of our local and global environment-worlds" (Frichot 2019, 154). 

Images hold the power to raise land and property prices, promoting practices of homogenisation and gentrification, that make neighbourhoods increasingly inaccessible for some who have lived there for years ([[Complicity +]]). Homogenising practices are not only responsible for the displacement of people but also for the loss of locality and its intricacies. In their capacity to inspire global trends, images can inspire a desire for a certain look that designers have seen and want to achieve, which is dependent on the import and over-extraction of materials causing lasting environmental impacts ([[Out-of-field]])