Within a capitalist mode of [[Post-orthographic]] production, where any creative gesture is subject to [[Quantification and Operationalisation]], everything is measured by its ability to be shown and therefore capitalised on. What is seen as profitable is often conditioned by the information (images) that already circulate in our environment. Hence, capital gain is related to the repetition of [[Precedent]]s which have proven to be successful. In this system, experimentation, whether artistic or technological, is seen as a risk. As Carol Fritz (2021, 26-7) points out in his essay “Alienation Beyond the Human”, in a state of [[Alienation]], the potential for novelty is smothered and futures are foreclosed. When “every invention or artistic endeavour must be predictably saleable as a commodity”, any sort of intervention will necessarily adhere to the dogmatic governing forces preventing the possibility of imaging of alternative futures. It is not a clearly defined utopian and egalitarian future that is at stake, because, as Fritz (2021, 27) reminds us, “It is not so much that becoming is inherently good, but rather that the obstruction of becoming is generally unhealthy or dangerous.” 

In the fast-paced and ultra-connected context of contemporary media, Hélène Frichot identifies the production of architectural imagery as a gullible practice that somewhat unknowingly lends itself to neoliberal ends of market capitalism. In her own words,  the affective labour of images operate in a reciprocal, disjunctive relation with the concepts and discursive statements architects enunciate, producing a disciplinary-wide [[Dogmatic Image of Thought]]" (Frichot 2014, 163). For example, images hold the power to raise land and property prices, promoting practices of homogenisation and gentrification, that make neighbourhoods increasingly inaccessible for some who have lived there for years. Homogenising practices are not only responsible for the displacement of people but also for the loss of locality and its intricacies. In their capacity to inform global trends through the formation of [[Visual Bonds]], images can inspire a desire for a certain look that designers have seen circulating in various [[Media]]. This designerly whim however, is dependent on the import and over-extraction of materials causing lasting environmental impacts, which remains in the [[Out-of-field]] of [[Representation]]al practices.

In his book "Architecture and [[Abstraction]]", Pier Vittorio Aurieli identifies the work of Jean-Nicolas-Louis Durand as a turning point in architectural production which set the ground for its commodification. Durand's understanding was that at its heart, architecture is meant to serve an economy of means, making the most out of limited resources. In his work "Precis of the Lectures of Architecture" he decomposes architectural structures to their founding elements - walls, openings, columns, etc. - and approaches them as independently deployable singularities that can be configured in an array of different ways in order to conform to the programatic requirements of a building (Aurieli 2023, 76). Symmetry was no longer the antique aspiration for beauty and harmony, but rather a way to accelerate design and facilitate construction processes (2023, 81). What followed from the deconstruction of architecture to its constituent elements was the "deskilling of design", where subjected to economical viability it became a means for mass production, in a context where "professionals have to design architecture in great quantities" (2023, 81). Fast forward to [[Contemporary Architectural Labour]] and one can observe those same processes, albeit massively inflated. In the process of the [[Industrialisation of the Symbolic]], the imagistic practices that architects valorise are mobilised to feed the "cash cow" that is the building industry. 
