In his book "Architecture and Abstraction", Pier Vittorio Aurieli (2023) provides a succinct account of contemporary architectural labour, which is exclusively defined by the limits of the project, whereas the rest is distributed, delegated, or subcontracted to other professional roles within the building industry. Contrary to common belief, the reason for this division of labour is not the increase of use value due to the cooperation of different experts. Rather, it is the realisation that, the more divided one service is, the more possibilities there are for the extraction of  profit, "Hence every aspect of architecture, from design to construction, is fertile ground for surplus extraction" (Aurieli 2023, 254). 

The [[Abstraction]]s that govern architectural production are so intricate and widespread that they surpass the traditional planning and drawing processes, which were originally the primary forms of abstraction in architecture. Ironically, the division of labor that once separated intellectual work from manual labor, proletarianising the builder, is now doing the same to the architect. As a result, "[[Architectural Output]] is reduced to the provision of artistic veneer behind which lies a complex conglomerate of financial and technical mechanisms" (Aurieli 2023, 255), while architects act as mere functionaries in a game over which they have no competence or control. 

Take for example the advent computational design, which has further reshaped architectural labor, and in its extreme form, what is called "parametric design", limits architecture to strict patterning controlled by algebraic parameters, often devoid of human logic, or perception (Aurieli 2023,247). Moreover, in thoroughly reciprocal manner ([[Reciprocity]]) architects' lives are increasingly shaped by software ecosystems and applications, with common workflows and technical rationales defining the affordances of their labor (Warburrton 2022, 114-7). These affordances condition what Frichot (2019, 153) calls "immaterial" or "cognitive" labour -  "labour which produces the informational and cultural content of a commodity, and which is dedicated to fixing aesthetic norms, tastes, fashions, consumer norms and thence opinion." This standardisation can be seen as the gentrification of virtual worlds, where architectural images circulate much like advertising imagery, contributing to the homogenisation of online platforms (Warburrton 2022, 127). Architects' socio-technical work becomes entwined with the evolution of [[Media]], serving to reproduce formal and social standards within virtual spaces. 