" "The architectural project today is fragmented into subcontracted competencies and professional roles, driven not by the benefit, or use value, of cooperation among different experts, but by the exchange value driven by profit. Hence every aspect of architecture, from design to construction, is fertile ground for surplus extraction. Architectural output is reduced to the provision of artistic veneer behind which lies a complex conglomerate of financial and technical mechanisms, while architects act as mere functionaries in a game over which they have no competence or control. The abstractions that mediate the production of architecture are so complex and ubiquitous that they exceed the planning and drawing that guided architectural and engineering work for centuries and were the original site of abstraction in architecture. Ironically the division of labour that separated head from hand and proletarianised the builder is now proletarianising the architect as well" (Aurieli 2023, 254-5). "Computation as a form of artificial intelligence limits architecture to mere patterning, systems of buildings and spaces strictly controlled by algebraic parameters missing a readable logic from the vantage point of human perception" (Aurieli 2023, 247). "Rooted in the very history of mathematical thought it integrates all existing knowledge into a universal system, stripping cognition of any anthropocentric or humanist pretention" (Aurieli 2023, 246). "In the collective circulation and convergence around common hardware, software ecosystems and applications, common workflows, file formats and technical rationales, architects’ lives and their labour are individuated through software, their brains moulded to common software logics, their hands accustomed to common keyboard shortcuts and their livelihoods dependant on and synchronised to the same cloud subscriptions and updates" (Warburrton 2022, 114). It follows that professional media producers’ practices are tightly defined by the affordances of mainstream software applications and ecosystems (Warburrton 2022, 117). These affordances delimit architecture’s ‘immaterial’ or ‘cognitive’ labour - labour which produces the informational and cultural content of a commodity, and which is dedicated to fixing aesthetic norms, tastes, fashions, consumer norms and thence opinion (Frichot 2019, 153). In their connection to rapidly changing world-building apparatuses, architects' socio-technical work that is situated at the avant-garde frontline of media evolution might be considered, politically, as the gentrification of virtual worlds in the form of socio-technical standardisation ‘that gives to production its formal, social, repeatable and reproducible form’ (Warburrton 2022, 127). This describes the contemporary situation in which architectural images are circulated, received and consumed, following much the same circuits as advertising imagery, increasingly populating our Web 2.0 online platform.

Architecture’s growing popularity is inversely proportional to the increasing sense of political powerlessness and cultural disillusionment many architects feel about their effective contribution to the built world (??? What images do, Oxvig , 174). As a craft, architecture is incapable of catching up with the megalopolitan proliferation and remains excluded from the process (Frampton 2001, 24).