First introduced by Nietzsche, Hélène Frichot (2019, p.165) explains that an image of thought is constructed when in serial formation and through hegemonic repetition, [[Image]]s begin to shape values, prejudices, taste, principles, “ultimate” truths etc. informed by normative standards, further ingraining them at an unconscious level. Therefore, an image of thought actively shapes both personal and collective subjectivity, informing and regulating the processes of subjectification. Put simply, images trigger mimetic desires, they spread values by way of mundane representation and in serial formation these images begin to give rise to an insidious image of thought which organises how we "think unreflectively, by way of habit, opinion and cliché" (Frichot 2016, 176). 

In his elaboration on the Nietzschean notion, Deleuze lays eight postulates that form the dogmatic image of thought, the fourth one being “[[Representation]].” As such it is aligned with the modes of thinking that produce the dogmatic image of thought, which adhere to the conception that error must be avoided because it is opposed to the “universal truths” that have been installed based on a priori determination of “common sense” and what is “true”, therefore installing a sense of [[(Re)Assurance]]  (Brown, 2005, p.33). Both Deleuze and Nietzsche take on this issue, not with the "creation" of this metaphysical framework, but with the fact that we have forgotten that it is indeed a creation, a fable, a result of the active, productive powers of thought. We have forgotten that the postulates of this image of thought are a collective interpretation. These postulates have been enshrined as absolute truths, and the dogmatic faith in truth as the ultimate value has replaced and suppressed the active forces in thought. This effectively renders thought reactive and relegates it to the sole function of comparing the information it receives to what has already been established as “truth” and discarding that which does not. Representation is informed by recognition (the third postulate), which makes them dependent on each other, especially in the formation of an image of thought - the former represents and, therefore, fortifies that which has already been recognised (Brown, 2005, p.36). From here we can clearly see how this upholds the tradition of the [[Precedent (Recognition) +]] in architectural circles and the [[Recycling]] of previously successful themes and motifs. Hence, in the words of Deleuze, “the world of representation is characterised by its inability to conceive of different in itself” (Deleuze "Difference and Repetition", 1994, p.138) Preoccupied with the model of recognition it suffocates any deviation from the established norm. 

The dogmatic image of thought that architectural representation helps shape is actively constitutive of the [[Alienation]] between architects and their output because it distances them from the environments in which they claim to be invested. Rather, they remain absorbed in the continual recognition and strengthening of prescribed modes of production, remaining exclusively involved with architecture’s own problems. If I could add one thing to what Deleuze has already lined out as the consequences of a dogmatic image of thought, it would be the state of thought itself. He sees thought under dogmatic circumstances as sedimentary and immobile, however, to me it resembles more of an inwards spiral, continuously closing in on itself, further strengthening its own beliefs, and reaching new extremes of authoritarian control. The silver lining being, that as the cycles grow smaller and smaller such a system is bound to collapse in on itself. Have reached that point yet?
