"Using the content of images to develop forms of critical legibility through which the operations of the network become clearer to humans and thus build the knowledge of systems that enable them to be disrupted and undermined" (Burbridge 2022, 647. New ways of seeing require new forms of literacy to account for the invisible realm of algorithms and database (infra)structures of computer vision (Cox 2022, 108). "Developing a literacy that is co-constituted, one that is more sensitised to relational operations and that shifts our attention away from the acquisition of technical know-how alone to new possibilities for aesthetic practice – in other words, that helps to expose the politics of invisuality and the envisioning of other potentials" (Cox 2022, 111). "The traditionally enduring time base of the archive itself is replaced with restless reconfiguration" (Ernst ??) (Ex: metadata provides multiple definitions of and routes to the same document, enabling documents to live in flexible, shifting relational contexts). "A constantly shifting mix of documents means a constantly shifting set of relations between those documents, resulting in fluid links between items and search queries" (Pierce 2021, 6) . "To archive digital art, we cannot rely on the idea of preservation as saving the origin of an artwork but need to integrate collectivity into archival methodology" (Hoth 2019, 152). Rather than as a static and unchangeable object, the documents should incorporate the processual dynamic of digital artworks by making them accessible as re-usable data (Hoth 2019, 153). Technical mediation, therefore, is not about matching realities (resemblance), it is about initiating new ones—new operational realities, new configurations of possible actions (Hoel 2022, 21). The figural dimension of technicity, then, has to do with the way that the intervention of technics institutes new, more evolved (differential) regimes of visibility—or else of intelligibility or action (Hoel 2020, p.295).

"What kind of movement of political montage would result in oppositional articulations, instead of a mere addition of elements for the sake of reproducing the status quo? Or to phrase the question differently, what kind of montage of two images/ elements would produce something beyond and outside these two images/elements, something that would not represent a compromise, but would instead belong to a different order—roughly the way someone might tenaciously pound two dull stones together to create a spark in the darkness?" (Steyerl 2012, 90-1)

A type of montage that produces something outside of itself, not a compromise but something that belongs to a different order and requires frames of reference that might be unfamiliar to architecture. "Amplified visual systems see more and differently. They do not imitate the already visible; they make visible. And, in so doing, they open new world aspects" (Hoel 2021, 122). From object-oriented software towards **relation-oriented software.** 
- seeing more, seeing differently 

My approach to this task takes the form of [[Exercises]] because they combine the archival ([[Archive]]) capabilities of representation in terms of their capacity to transmit knowledge and are capable of [[Hosting]] the [[Performative +]] nature of the modifications within a set.