What are the conditions/contexts that give rise to formative technological substructures? What are the results of their unquestioned ubiquity? 

What are the tools you can provide? How can you enact the network(s)?

 Here we shall examine the influence of architectural technics and their capacity to condition thinking. It is only right to start with one of the canonical texts written on the topic “Towards a Philosophy of Photography” by Vilem Flusser. In his account, Flusser (2000, 22) clarifies that technical apparatuses are products of culture and as such culture is reflected and recognisable in them. As we have already established earlier, all tools and techniques that architects have in their arsenal are [[Mnemotechnics]] that act as externalised memory or storehouses of cumulative knowledge. In their most elaborate and complicated form, they take the shape of computer modelling softwares that have become an industry standard. In her essay “Deleuze, Theory, and Space”, Elizabeth Grosz (2003, p.83) defines them as “the necessary and practical facilitation of the real we need in order to make it [space] conform to our needs.” However, neither CAD nor BIM nor any post-production software originated as specifically crafted for or out of the needs of the architectural profession. The former were initially geared towards the engineering sectors, while the latter towards the film industry. Radically faster and much more precise, they facilitated architectural production, leaving design professionals in awe of their “magical” capabilities. As Zeina Koreitem (2019) points out in her essay “Some Notes on Making Images with Computers”, there is nothing wrong with this importation, however, while we were busy picking up our jaws, no one noticed that along with the automation of the mundane, time-consuming tasks, “the values of other disciplines and practices are imported as well, quietly “smuggled” in the boring, hidden innards and interfaces of the tools themselves.” The resulting reverence and obsession with precision, accuracy, efficiency, speed and other technical values was reflected in the technical minimisation of error and uncertainty together with their derivatives -  accident, inaccuracy, disturbance, unpredictability, etc. In other words, any imprecisions were deemed undesirable. However, historically these have proven to be vital for discoveries, and novel interpretations. In their emphasis on precision, or more importantly in their repulsion to error, such technics are actively supportive of the structures that establish and sustain the [[Dogmatic Image of Thought]] and suffocate invention.

 This half-understood reception of the tools we use becomes even more problematic when it is combined with one of the most pervasive fallacies of current modes of thinking, precisely the conception that thoughts or ideas are formed in the brain or mind, independently from their technical surroundings. This is exactly what John May emphasises in his book “Signal. Image. Architecture.” There he follows Bernard Stiegler and his understanding of human experience as “epi-phylo-genetic” - life is lived by means other than life, through technical objects (or organs - emphasis on their genetic character) (May, 2019, p.36). Furthermore, anthropogenesis - the process of becoming human - is inextricably linked to the technics it shapes and which shape it in turn. Here it is adequate to make a clear distinction between technics and technology. Technology can be described merely as a subcategory of the wider field of technics, the difference being that the former is merely the industrialised, formalised, and usually automated form of the latter. Technics encompass the wider compositions of tools, techniques, and technologies and their capacity to entail cumulative knowledge, while technology strictly revolves around singular objects (May, 2019, p.38). Examples of architectural technics can range from pencils, tracing paper and sketching, to the application of linear perspective in CAD or BIM softwares. 
 
 If one remains contemptuous of the common conception of thought occurring independently of its technical milieu, in the mind of the subject, the next logical step would be to think of the tools we use merely as neutral vessels of thought, which help carry it to fruition. This is definitely the case in contemporary architectural practice where professionals work under the conception that the digital technologies that they use are simply assisting them in the realisation of their self-contained thoughts and ideas. However, Stiegler and May are in pain to point out, that this could not be further away from what actually happens. This should be even more evident when we expose what CAD stands for - Computer-Aided-Design. Right there, in its name, stands the purpose of such a tool, namely its active involvement in the process of design. Tools, images, keyboards, and screens are not simply neutral vessels for our ideas, they actively shape our ideas because we think with and through them. As architects, we think with and through pencils, sketches, perspectives, Photoshop, Illustrator, CAD and BIM. In other words, our tools become formative of the way we see the world and the ways we make sense of it. If we refuse to acknowledge that thought emerges at the junction of the technical and the subjective, we shall remain oblivious to the processes that shape our work. As Flusser (2000, 27) predicts, in the obscurity of our tools we shall lose ourselves inside them, searching for possibilities of what they are conditioned to produce. Just like the photographers he describes, who are focused on the camera to the point where the world becomes a pretext for the realisation of camera possibilities, we, the renderillas and oraxotans, are focused on the realisation of 3D modelling software possibilities. As Yuk Hui (Lovink, 2019) warns us, the void between the ever-more ubiquitous and fanatical use of technology and our understanding of its internal processes and radical transformations its triggers grows bigger and bigger, and with it grows our dependency on processes we no longer comprehend. That void is occupied by [[Alienation]] and the more it expands, the more palpable it becomes.
