Here I want to emphasise the importance of hosting as an alternative form of archiving ([[Archive]]). Unlike recording or representing, hosting is capable of encompassing the entirety of an event, therefore it is not necessary to rely on representational forms of knowledge transmission, on the contrary, it can activate non-representational modes of learning which happen through doing. The point is to emphasise tacit, minor knowledge. Ultimately, the goal of "hosting" is to propose an alternative to the traditional form of archiving which is focused solely on archived materials, while this approach transforms them into actions that can be performed and focuses on their "practical, 'performing' availability" (Kacunko 2013, 2). I understand that one will never be able to represent an event completely or re-live it as it was. This is neither possible nor desirable. Mediation is, therefore, "not about matching realities (resemblance), it is about initiating new ones—new operational realities, new configurations of possible actions" (Hoel 2022, 21). If we break with representational thinking, one can focus on coming up with [[Performative +]] practices that model relations and the processes, not structures and final outputs. To illustrate this idea, try to draw a fish as a line of its movements. Instead of focusing on what it looks like - the static, stable, and completed - animate its doings, goings, and becomings (Vannini 2020, 15). This approach not only shares knowledge about the matter at hand but also elaborates on the underlying processes. The archive's traditionally stable and enduring nature is now replaced by constant reconfiguration. The constantly shifting relations that this approach embraces results in the creation of new links between them (Pierce 2021, 6), and therefore the potential for novel encounters. 

<p align= "center">“We need a history that does not save in any sense of the word”, we need histories that perform and can be performed" (Clarke 2013, 379).</p>

The way I approached this task was by compiling a set of [[Exercises]] that aim to "host" the processes that are involved in the production of architectural imagery and make them sensible. I see those Exercises as a distinctive form of [[Set]]s in the sense that they set up the context for an event to play out. They provide the necessary conditions for things to happen, however, unlike common representational techniques, they involve the [[Performative +]] processes and make them legible or perhaps palpable. Therefore, the archival entities are no longer regarded as static, unchangeable objects, but processes that "incorporate the processual dynamics" of the performative and make them "accessible as re-usable data" (Hoth 2019, 153). Exercises hold the capacity to reengage subjects, they require interaction and through it aim to produce new forms of literacy which can enable critical thought. Those actions actively battle [[Alienation]] and reintroduce a sense of engagement. 

