Here I want to emphasise the importance of hosting as an alternative form of archiving ([[Archive +]]). Unlike recording or representing, hosting is capable of encompassing the entirety of an event, therefore it is not necessary to rely on representational forms of knowledge transmission, on the contrary, it can activate [[Non-representation +]]al modes of learning which happen through doing. Such exercises resemble primary school science experiments and emphasise tacit, minor knowledge. I see those exercises as a distinctive form of [[Set]]s in the sense that they set up the context for an event to play out. Much like the framing sets, the exercises provide the necessary conditions for things to happen, however, unlike common representational techniques, they involve the [[Performative +]] processes and make them legible or perhaps sensible. Exercises hold the capacity to reengage subjects, they require interaction and through it aim to produce new forms of literacy which can enable critical thought. Those actions actively battle [[Alienation]] and reintroduce a sense of engagement.

"The essential aim of appropriate, structured ‘hosting’ of existing projects and such as may be relevant in future, would eventually be to include the transformation of the ‘archived’ and ‘archiving’ into the potential of ‘performed’ scientific issues and the potential of their practical, ‘performing’ availability" (Kacunko 2013, 2). "If the aesthetic frames and delimits, then performance can work to “unframe” the messy embodiment that constitutes our relationship to spaces and things, but only if the interpretive models we employ to analyse and historicise it remain equally active and open to contingency" (Jones 2013, 56). “We need a history that does not save in any sense of the word”, we need histories that perform and can be performed" (Clarke 2013, 379). "The drawing as an image is irrelevant, it is the act of drawing that brings the cathedral back—not as an object or even the idea of an object, but as an event" (Stoner 2012, 64-5)

You will never be able to represent completely the event, to re-live it as it was. This is neither possible nor desirable => break with representational thinking => you need something that models the relations and the processes, not the structures and the final output. It does not make sense to simply project possible developments in a Lagrangian frame of reference, rather you need to set up the conditions for the Lagrangian frame to be recorded throughout time. Drawing a fish as a line, rather than focusing on the resemblance of the static, stable and completed: animate doings, goings, and becomings. Instead of a "finished product," we shall model the process of making itself: the making of. This approach not only shares knowledge about the matter at hand but also elaborates on the underlying processes.