The ways in which our contemporary tools strengthen the [[Dogmatic Image of Thought]], and therefore aggravate [[Alienation]], become even more explicit in the platforms we use to shape our fantasies. A quick look at the interface of any industry-standard software, be it ArchiCAD, Revit, Rhino, Adobe derivatives, etc, will reveal a common pre-programmed preset of available geometric variations ready to be unleashed on a blank, or sometimes gridded, white sheet. This conditions the beginning of every project, the inhibition of any idea, based on predetermined ideas of abstracted, isolated, Cartesian space. It becomes a gridded canvas which offers itself to the expression of the designer’s wildest ideas, which, however, can only be expressed with the already available geometric presets. Inevitably, in such conditions, any designerly thought becomes a Cartesian given (Jacob, 2017). The stamps of hylomorphic thinking are evident all over the “blank pages” of digital tools. Although they may seem infinite, the possibilities that lay inside modelling softwares are nevertheless calculable and more importantly predictable, as Frei Otto says, “The computer can only calculate what is already inside of it […] new inventions cannot arise from it; you only get what you have already placed inside it” (Songel, 2010, p.38-40). This only proves Robin Evans’ statement that “architects do not produce geometry, they consume it” (Evans, 2000, p.xxvi). There is a clear correlation between the emphasis placed on geometry and the architects’ obsession with form and from-finding exercises facilitated by our design tools. Geometry gives rise to form, which, as Brian Massumi (1998, p.3) underlines in his essay “Sensing the Virtual, Building the Insensible”, is traditionally regarded as the “origin and telos” of architecture, both its raw material and final output, essentially “bracketing” design. This bracketing was justified by the claim that form, and geometry as its building blocks, can communicate to a wider public and the provided a sense [[(Re)Assurance]] when doubts creep in. An architectural language, made up of lines, circles, rectangles, and curves was composed, whose “words” supposedly signified universal principles, conditioned an [[Image-Object Fixation]]. However, once again, as Robin Evans brilliantly puts it, “drawing is not writing and architecture does not speak” (Evans, 2000, p.xxxvi). Given Evans’ sweeping critique, one can only denounce the remnants of modernist ideologies that proclaim architecture as language which are still irritatingly present. Why then do we still find them in every “toolbox” of every design-oriented software, imposing hylomorphic schemas as a given? We might begin to trace the answer to this question to the worship of the [[Linear Perspective]] that has been formative for architectural discourse in the past few centuries as we still feel the consequences of its persistence.

The problem with the exclusive application of hylomorphic schemas is that such rigid, stable methods of representation cannot account for social, environmental, political, personal, or legislative forces and generally cannot encompass the design process. This opens up an irreconcilable gap between the opportunities and obligations of architecture’s environmental and political contingencies – characterised by inherently dynamic and open systems – and the linear and static means architects continue to use to design (Moe 2019, 120). Furthermore, the unquestioned persistence of the Cartesian organisation has instilled a false sense of stability in the project of architecture (Moe 2019, 121), effectively freezing it in time and isolating it from any external to the design process forces: 
<p align= "center">"When you hold a hammer, everything looks like a nail. When you only design in a Cartesian frame of reference, architecture falsely appears as an object with apparent properties of simple location, seemingly more autonomous than it is in reality" (Moe 2019, 121). </p>
Object-oriented softwares, such as CAD and BIM, are the necessary and practical facilitation of the real we need to make it conform to our needs, however, they prioritise the supposed autonomy of the project which is evident in the orthogonal grids and “blank” white workspace. They merely outline or highlight space and objects rather than understand their interlinkages (Grosz 2003, 83-4). Similarly, "maps represent a static two-dimensional idea of reality that is unable to accommodate change" (Zones Urbaines Sensibles 2019, 308). By accepting representation as a sole mode of production, ‘we make it impossible to imagine the potential of a human being who is not experiencing the world as a subject, for whom the world is not an image or a picture (Dewdney 2022, 35).

