In his essay “Everything is Already an Image” John May (2012, 20) argues that with the introduction of digital technology, we have surpassed orthography, and produce in a [[Post-orthographic]] regime. In this radically different mode of production, the term “drawing”, now replaced by “image”, is only a remnant from an orthographic past, a signpost of familiarity, a vital element of comprehension, that helps us cope in the face of unfamiliar conditions, that is our technical milieu. As practitioners, educators, and architects-to-be we find ourselves in a position, where, image is everything in architecture, and everything is already an image.

In the context of  [[Contemporary Architectural Labour +]] images are what you are paid to do. They are the quantification of architectural thought. In that sense, they are a very convenient materialisation of effort, an actual outcome that can be monetised, something you can charge for. Hence, everything is equated to its capacity to be shown. That which remains excluded, the “[[Out-of-field]]”, due to its inability to be translated to the realm of the visual, is considered less valuable if acknowledged at all because it cannot be equated to capital. One can recognise the emergent problem in the words of Robin Evans (1984, p.481), “Architecture begins and ends in pictures, but pictures don’t give us all we need”, because “not all things architectural […] can be arrived at through drawing” (Evans, 1985, p.5) Therefore, in a state where “image is everything and everything is an image”, much of the un-imagable is essentially neglected. Echoing Frichot (2014, p.163), in presenting future architectural outputs as static, polished and idealised objects lies the danger of how easily the images we produce can enact prescriptive realities, essentially predetermining processes of subjectification and dismissing the possibility of alternative future expressions (of both spaces and people). Further on, those usually well-intentioned pictorial practices get entangled in networks of market and informational capitalism, where there[[Complicity +]] in detrimental practices - such as capital and material extraction and aestheticisation of politics - remains somewhat unacknowledged. To quote Frichot (2019, p.165) once again, “The [[Affect]]ive labour of images [...] operate in a reciprocal, if disjunctive, relation with the concepts and discursive statements architects enunciate.” In other words, what we produce blindly, unaware of the systems is going the enter, once entangled in networks out of our realm, gains entirely new meaning which is contrary to what we claim to fight for.

[[Representation]] emerges as the meeting point of an immense amount of architectural issues that are manifested in pictorial practices, whose behaviour and modes of production we fail to grasp, ultimately resulting in [[Alienation]]. The question remains, how to battle this condition? In fact, we have already taken the first step, which is to recognise that in its commercial, contemporary incarnation, architecture is predominantly occupied with image production. However, the next step, which is more of an expedition, is to begin grappling with image ontology and epistemology, understanding its inherent qualities and processes that shape it. Finally, this begs the question, "What is an image?" In the words of William Mitchell: 
<p align= "center">You can hang a picture, but you cannot hang an image. […] It is what can be lifted off the picture, transferred to another medium, translated into verbal ekphrasis, or protected by copyright law. (Mitchell, 2005, p.85) </p>
Here Mitchell provides an updated version of traditional [[Signifying Semiotics +]], which have a common understanding of images as signs, or as Martin Schwab (2000, p.110) puts it “signs that present their meaning in an iconic mode.” Meaning, that they communicate through structural analogues of what they want to convey, and as a mode of re-presentation rely on mimesis or similarity. In his book “What Do Pictures Want?” Mitchell transcends this conception and goes on to argue that images are much more than simply what they look like. The distinction between image and picture inverts the common perception that images are static entities. Images are inherently agile due to their ability to move from one medium to another, but also to transcend the medium itself. That is to say that although what we consume is transmitted visually, the image remains independent of its medium (Shwarte, 2019, p.85), it is that which can be “lifted off”. Another mistake that we should avoid is to think of images as singularities. As Hélène Frichot reminds us in her essay “Gentri-Fiction and Our (E)States of Reality”, we should not understand images as singular entities that operate by themselves in an isolated state. Their dynamic character stems from the way they operate in “animated networks or assemblages”, or as Deleuze famously points out, “The image is not an object but a “process”. Furthermore, they possess a certain duality, “they are made but also in the process of becoming” (Backlund et al., 2019, p.15), at the same time they are constructed by and within their environments and have the capacity to reconstruct them. This process of becoming is illustrated in their movement through various networks and how they transform them, all the while transforming themselves as a part of this encounter. Therefore, in the words of Sjoerd van Tuinen (2019, p.229), the image makes no significant movement without itself transforming, and its becoming is defined by the way it adds itself to its environment and therefore changes it.

Semiotic practices have been established as the dominant mode of how we perceive, appropriate, and present information, therefore, laying the basis for learning itself. In the words of Marc Boumeester (2019, p.53), “The way we perceive is not only learned but also part of the way we learn.” It follows that images possess the power to mediate our worldly perception and their far-reaching effects can be traced from changing trends to behavioural biases, political propaganda, gentrification, and displacement of people. Following Nelson Goodman, no longer simply mirroring the world, images are “ways of worldmaking”. Contrary to the common understanding embedded in [[Signifying Semiotics +]], the power of images does not lie in their “signs” and the messages that they are transferring mimetically, but it stems from the networks that they infiltrate, from, or reinvent. In our current systems of overproduction of images and sensory overload, the value of an image is no longer equated to the production of novel thought, information, or content, but rather with their “reproductive potency and fertility” (Mitchell, 2005, p.90), or how easily they can connect to existing ideas, social and political agendas, capital etc. This is what David Joselit terms as the aesthtics of the "Search Engine" that is produced by the constant [[Recycling]] of visual content. That is to say, the power of the image is in its production and circulation and the processes of subjectification it affects. It follows that the power of circulation and affect can shifts the cognitive biases of a disciplinary collectives. Therefore, images are in a peculiar position. On one hand, they can be utilised towards further strengthening dogmatic tendencies, facilitating exploitation and confinement, on the other, they hold liberating potential, performing as prophets illuminating the future that until now could not have been depicted (Mitchell, 2005, p.168).

Acknowledging architectural imagery as only a small part of a wider ecology of images opens up the theorisation of architectural output to a logical approach through the lens of image theory and [[Contemporaneity]]. In the spirit of [[A-Signifying Semiotics]], less interested in the qualities of the image, this approach shifts the focus towards its capacities to produce affects and percepts, as well as the networks that give rise to it. Following a Simondonian train thought I approach the image as a quasi-organism capable of becoming. Much like any other technical object, images are adaptive mediators between subject and environment and participate in processes of transidividuation by mixing with non-technical elements and forces. In the words of David Joselit (2013, 94-6), "The capacity to format complex and multivalent links through visual means—is derived from networks rather than discrete objects." That is not to say that images do not represent, on the contrary, there has been a process of the [[Industrialisation of the Symbolic]], where their signification has been "re- organised under a non-representational system of computational capitalism through processes of extraction, abstraction and the financialisation of culture (Dewdney and Sluis 2022, 5)." The image is constructed through a complex, intricate, and interrelated system of networks that presents an assemblage of visuality, technology, politics, and social relations. Its existence is intricately entangled and intertwined with software, hardware, code, programmers, platforms, and users, it is lodged in a circulatory system of desire and exchange, which itself relies on a very specific economic regime (Center for the Study of the Networked Image 2021, 40). From these networks emerges the [[Networked Image +]]. 
