The fixation on form and sign as language is closely related to the fixation on [[Image]]s that architects often idolise. The pristine plan, section, or perspective view can be an object of intense admiration and reverie. When combined with the rigid, immobile slice of time that [[Linear Perspective]] provides, the disproportionate amount of time and effort concentrated on curating a [[Set]] or an [[Any-space-whatsoever]] gives rise to what has been observed as the continual fetishisation of the fixed architectural object. The image/object fixation can be traced back to our own fixation as designers to protect our ideas from being altered in the process of realisation which are evident in the [[Architectural Output (Project+)]] that constitutes the architectural project. Furthermore, this can be accredited to our delusions for grandeur and stardom dating back to the idolisation of the persona of the architect and more recently the “starchitect”, as well as to educational practices within universities that emphasise individual production and physical outcomes, often in the form of images. The images we produce are equated to our input to the final result, therefore the likeness of the images produced during the project phase to the actual built edifice results in gratification, acknowledging that our vision has persevered through this lengthy process and with it the little agency that has left in the hands of the architect. This condition of "guarding the vision at all costs" is a consequence of the alienating practices ([[Alienation]]) that fortify a [[Dogmatic Image of Thought +]]. Making their way into the [[Post-orthographic]] mode of production, these problematic tendencies have given rise to what Bruno Latour describes as the phenomenon of “object-oriented softwares” (Frichot, 2019, p.98) such as CAD and BIM. This phenomenon further aggravates the obsessive behaviour of design professionals, however, the irony of this protectionism is evident in the words of Felix Guattari: 
<p align= "center">“The object of architecture has been smashed to pieces. It is useless to hold on to what it was or what it ought to be! Situated at the intersection of political stakes of the first importance, of democratic and ethnic tensions, of economic, social and regional antagonisms that are nowhere near resolved, spurred on by constant technological and industrial mutations, it is irreversibly condemned to being dragged and pulled in every direction.” (Guattari,1989, p.1-2) </p>

Given Guattari's position, the obsession with the perpetuation of our design fantasies seem pointless and highlights the disillusionment with the reality of the profession that many young architects experience upon entering the field. Once the realisation, that architecture has a limited and ever more diminishing effect on political and social issues in a context ruled by exchange value, sets in, architects often compensate for this lack of agency by placing a disproportionate amount of importance on the architectural object, given that they are incapable to influence the processes that govern its condition. This feeling of helplessness is partly a result of the educational systems that place importance on finished products. We are trained to produce objects, which as Guattari points out are "useless to hold onto", however what we need is a different repository of skillsets that can analyse and engage with processes. As Massumi puts it we should aim to produce "architecture as a gift of product for process", where "the sign-form fundamentally means nothing" and  "is meant to stand at the threshold between processes." (Massumi 1998, 19) My approach to this challenge is by following the path of the [[Performative +]], which prioritises actions and doing over results and objects .