If we accept the argument that traditional [[Signifying Semiotics]], reliant on representational modes of communication, have given way to [[A-Signifying Semiotics]], defined by their non-representational and operational character, one might ask what is the role of the residual representational image whose presence has been steadily increasing in the past decades. As a champion of the theory of the [[Networked Image]], Dewdney (2022, 32) argues that culture, legible in the representational side of the [[Image]], is a necessary part of the industrialisation of the symbolic.  Images make data understandable to humans in visual forms that bear no resemblance to the  [[Technological Substructures]] that shape them. In turn, the engagement with visual content makes humans legible to machines (Burbridge 2022, 67). In other words, digital technologies enable the re-organisation, industrialisation, and colonisation of the symbolic by enabling the quantification, abstraction, and financialisation of the interaction with visual content (Hui 2012, 393; Centre For The Study Of The Networked Image 2021, 42). In such context, the industrial (public) sphere in intimately entangled with the personal sphere, where sites of visual interaction (cinema, social media, television, etc.) are converted into factories, spectators are transformed into workers, and looking is equated to value-productive labour (Burbridge 2022, 61; Dewdney 2022, 32). It follows that in the existing system of extraction of economic value through the algorithmic surveillance of our online presence, visual content will continue to have fundamental impact on our lives (Burbridge 2022, 61). The increased digitalisation of culture and its reliance on screen-based mediators  is exponentially reflected in the strengthening of the importance of existing regimes of visuality an the power they hold over cultural production and therefore subjectification. As the dominant form of [[Mnemotechnics]], or tertiary forms of retention ([[Archive]]), imagery becomes increasingly decisive in the distribution and delimiting of the sensual by actively defining the limits of what can be seen, sensed, or what can make sense (Lund 2022, 235). 
 
Anthony Vidler (2000,17) notes that, "In this context, the question of architectural abstraction, whether in representation or in building, takes on an entirely new significance. For what seems to be at stake is the instability provoked between the new formal vocabularies generated by the computer and their easy translation into built form, so as to produce, almost simultaneously, an image as architecture and architecture as image." To begin to unpack this quote we need to understand that, in our current mode of production ([[Post-orthographic]], [[Contemporary Architectural Labour]]) architectural [[Abstraction]] - the events playing out on our 3D modelling playgrounds - has exponentially increased its significance. Any variety of forms generated in our [[Representation]]s is now very easily translated into built form due to the increasingly intimate bond between the tools we use to make digital representations and industrial production. Hence, image truly becomes architecture. The second part of Vidler’s statement is two-fold. First, we can interpret it as the increasing tendency of “frontal ontology”, where contemporary architecture relies on visually impactful shapes or materials that impress the distanced viewer, reducing experience to a retinal journey. Second, it can be understood as how we consume architecture - mainly in the form of images that circulate in social [[Media]] platforms, architectural journals and blogs, movies, books, YouTube tutorials etc. in their circulation, repetition, and [[Recycling]]. This gives the sense that images are crossing the screen and acting in reality (Steyerl 2012). This unmediated actualisation changes the direction of time: it is as if "the future has replaced the present by happening before, or by “appearing before”, materialising itself in the words of scientists and managers, but also in the algorithms of computing machines" (Portanova 2021, 12). All of this is dictated by the intention to create a predictable, stable and fertile soil for capital extraction. Enabled by the close relationship between design softwares and industrial production, the operational capacity of images is tamed and intentionally enforced. That is why the powers of fiction, made possible in representational means, should not be underestimated, as fiction, appropriated by industrial processes, produces very real effects.
