Apart from declaring reality to be a flattened, mathematical projection from the standpoint of an immobile cyclops (Steyerl, 2012, p.18), linear perspective (or any orthographic projection) is only capable of representing singular snapshots of otherwise dynamic events, falsely depicting subjects, objects and spaces as static, immobile entities. Furthermore, to quote Hito Steyerl, “As a consequence, linear perspective not only transforms space, but also introduces the notion of a linear time, which allows mathematical prediction and, with it, linear progress” (2012, p.18). This static character of [[Representation]] proves to be vital for the usefulness of such modes of imagery in current economic regimes, where the ability to foresee a calculable future ensures the predictability of investments and their potential returns. This ties representation to be as accurate as possible in its depiction of possible futures, a perfect simulacrum, where any deviation of the outcome from what was depicted before may result in loss of capital. This deems unpredictability and change to be undesirable as they are equated with the unknown, which may hold … unpredictable profit margins. In their preemptive capacity, 3D modelling softwares and post-produced renders ([[Post-production]]) have constituted a condition, where the future, presented on a screen, has replaced the present by “happening” or appearing before it (Portanova, 2022, p.12). This predictable behaviour was the reason why the linear perspective has been championed for so long. However, in our fixation with perfection, control, predictability and compulsive need to understand and explain everything, finally, a worthy contender of the linear perspective has emerged - God’s eye. Following the argument Steyerl laid out in her essay “In Free Fall: A Thought Experiment on Vertical Perspective”, with the introduction of aerial or satellite views, the importance of linear perspective has been diminishing. However, this is not a replacement of one with the other, but rather the radicalisation of the paradigm of linear perspective. The gaze, which was already mechanised and mobilised with photography, has left the ground and together with it its human carrier and was outsourced to machines patrolling the atmosphere (Steyerl, 2012, p.14, p.24). Now capable of zooming in and out, reminiscent of the famous Eames’ production “Powers of Ten”, the “detached observant gaze to become ever more inclusive and all-knowing to the point of becoming massively intrusive […] both micro- and macroscopic" (2012, p.24). This new and radicalised paradigm has been appropriated in computer modelling, giving rise to an updated version of the comparison first made by Nelson Goodman between magician/painter and surgeon/cameraman. William Mitchel (2005, p.321) proposes that the cameraman has been displaced by the “designer of virtual spaces and electronic architectures”, or the cyber artist who paradoxically operates closer and in more detail than ever, and yet even further away from its surroundings. This description is now bordering what Matin Heidegger termed “technological enframing”, where due to the advanced degree of specialisation of technological production, any outcome of such a system will be increasingly divorced from the experiential register of the “real world” (Kane and Korteim, 2018). 

