"Trans-individuation designates processes of co-individuation within media or symbolic environments in which the ‘I’ and the ‘we’ participate and are transformed through one another. The media that interconnect and make us contemporaneous constitute a generally shared image-environment" (Cox and Lund 2016, 12). They shall be seen as a dynamic entity, as environments for meaning-making and symbolic exchange where processes of large-scale transindividuation and subjectification take place (Cox and Lund 2016, 29). The generalised sharing of time, which defines [[Contemporaneity]] is – among other things – established through a sharing of images and symbols or a shared relation to the same, or some of the same, images and symbols, creating [[Visual Bonds +]] (Cox and Lund 2016, 11). The global circulation of images and the workings of new media realities increasingly seem to mediate social relations and the social imaginary (Lund 2021, 6), where "cinematic politics become post-representational - they do not educate the crowd, but produce it" (Steyerl 2012, 73). "While it is unlikely that Instagram itself will host a meaningful discourse on imaging in architecture, it has already proven to be one the most culturally significant pieces of software" (Canizares 2019, 524), where "audiences are linked almost in a physical sense by mutual excitement, affective attunement, and anxiety" (Steyerl 2013, 43). In these new media, the fundamental ontology of [[Image]]s is inflated and manifests itself in new ways (Mitchell 2005, 97). It is precisely due to this inflation that the underlying [[Technological Substructures +]], circulatory systems, and operational capacities of the [[Networked Image +]] become visible. 

