"If we follow this vegetal metaphor, images would thus be tantamount to the visible part of the mycelium, the outcrop of the hyphae that allowed for their emergence. When they pop up, they rarely pop out of the blue but have been patiently prepared and are sustained by a rhizomatic substrate that carries and nourishes them. An image never comes alone, it rests on a complex network that allows for it to come into being, it emerges through the network" (Alloa 2021, 10). "The image is constructed through a complex, intricate, and interrelated system of networks that presents an assemblage of visuality, technology, politics, and social relations. Its existence is intricately entangled and intertwined with software, hardware, code, programmers, platforms, and users" (Center for the Study of the Networked Image 2021, 40), "it is lodged in a circulatory system of desire and exchange, which itself relies on a very specific economic regime" (Steyerl 2013, 5). "Its distribution process makes the structure, dependencies and meaning of the networked image visible" (Center for the Study of the Networked Image 2021, 40).

In a contemporary digital era marked by Web 2.0, the colonisation and automation of signification, and the financialisation of data, the “networked image” performs as a “socio-technical assemblage” (Center for the Study of the Networked Image 2021, 40), with emphasis on its reliance on [[Technological Substructures +]] while actively participating in governing social relations. Transcending the realm of traditional [[Signifying Semiotics +]], images are no longer static, mimetic signs, but rather agile entities that can go beyond their mediums and form, alter, or disrupt networks. They play a crucial role in mediating worldly perception, influencing trends, biases, political propaganda, and urban agendas, hence the accuracy of Nelson Goodman’s statement that images are not just ways of world-mirroring, but “ways of wold-making.”

Annotation is the cognitive labour that consists in bridging what computer scientists name the “semantic gap”: a gap between the photograph as a visual surface that can be interpreted semantically, and the photograph as data. Bridging this gap is intimately related to the versatility of the networked image which operates simultaneously as a picture and as a collection of bytes (Maleve 2022, 93).

"Under this light, curating the networked image can be described as a practice of translation between different regimes of visibility, registers of code (the human and the computational), language (the visual and the semantic) and value (the cultural, the commercial and the social).[...]By paying attention to the systemic as well as to the granular, it can open up brackets of intervention into the contingent, distributed messiness of contemporary networked culture, moulding its politics and aesthetics" (Tendone 2022, 148).

"circulation as an open-ended cul- tural process, which cuts across different socio-technical and economic layers and greatly impacts dynamics of sharing and cultural appropriation as well as systems of exchange and commodification. In other words, this integrated perspective on circulation offers a framing of the politics and aesthetics of the networked image. This is because it considers how networked images are simultaneously part of the wider networked infrastructures and dynamics of global capitalism and of the cul- tural flows and aesthetic currents that define what it means to live, create, consume and imagine in the age of computing" (Tendone 2022, 138).

"The capacity of networked image culture to produce capital around the clock links it to a world ‘reimagined as a non-stop work site" (Burbridge 2022, 65). 

"The paradox of this moment of the visual in culture is that the networked image operates in two simultaneously perceptual/cognitive registers, one propping up an established code of visuality, the other busily undermining it. The observable screen image and the signalised image are coupled in the algorithmic image but have different destinations. The screen image drives towards satisfying the socius and with its desire and the unconscious, while the signalised image drives towards optimal financialisaton, capital and exchange.This is another way of putting Mackenzie and Munster’s point that visual technologies and practices continue to expand what can be visualised, even as the visual itself is being evacuated" (Dewdney 2022, 30).

"The networked image has an infrastructure that requires labour and capital to produce a constant energy source, the mining of raw materials, the manufacture of electronic devices, the launching of space rockets, the construction of server farms, the laying of cables, and the deployment of transmitters and receivers" (Dewdney 2022, 26).

"the networked image is relationally constituted in the processual relay between the back-end extractive functions of the database and the front end of user interaction in uploading, sharing and viewing images" (Sluis 2022, 49).

The logic of our position on the changed social relations and cultural form of the networked image necessarily extends to consider the challenge of how knowledge is produced, circulated and shared in the network (Center for the Study of the Networked Image 2021, 43). 