In a contemporary digital era marked by Web 2.0, the colonisation and automation of signification, and the financialisation of data, the “networked image” performs as a “socio-technical assemblage” (Center for the Study of the Networked Image 2021, 40), with emphasis on its reliance on [[Technological Substructures]] while actively participating in governing social relations. Transcending the realm of traditional [[Signifying Semiotics]], images are no longer static, mimetic signs, but rather agile entities that can go beyond their mediums and form, alter, or disrupt networks. They play a crucial role in mediating worldly perception, influencing trends, biases, political propaganda, and urban agendas, hence the accuracy of Nelson Goodman’s statement that images are not just ways of world-mirroring, but “ways of wold-making.” This is because networked images are both integrated into the broader networked infrastructures and dynamics of global capitalism and involved in the cultural flows and aesthetic trends that shape living, creating, consuming, and imagining in the computing age (Tendone 2022, 138). 

According to Katrina Sluis (2022, 49) the networked image is constituted in the relational activity that takes place between, "the back-end extractive functions of the database and the front end of user interaction in uploading, sharing and viewing images". Put simply, the networked image operates both as a collection of bytes and as picture at the same time (Maleve 2022, 93). This condition can be exemplified by a vegetal metaphor propagated by Gilbert Simondon in and his exploration of the imagistic cycles. In his view, images are akin to the visible part of the mycelium, the outcrop of hyphae that facilitate their emergence. They rarely appear spontaneously; instead, they are meticulously prepared and sustained by a rhizomatic substrate that supports and nourishes them: 
<p align= "center">"An image never comes alone, it rests on a complex network that allows for it to come into being, it emerges through the network" (Alloa 2021, 10). </p>
The image is embedded within a circulatory system of desire and exchange, which depends on a very specific economic regime (Steyerl 2013, 5), and its distribution process reveals the structure, dependencies, and meaning (Center for the Study of the Networked Image 2021, 40).

The dual nature of the networked image comes from its [[Technological Substructures]], which allow for it to become an active force in the shaping of [[Contemporaneity]]. The networked image functions on two concurrent perceptual and cognitive levels: one upholding an established visual code and the other subverting it. The visible screen image and the signalised image are interconnected in the algorithmic image but have distinct objectives. The screen image aims to satisfy the social desire and unconscious, while the signalised image focuses on financial optimisation, capital, and exchange. As an active agent in the [[Industrialisation of the Symbolic]], the networked image has the capacity to produce capital around the clock, fitting into the conception of our world as a "non-stop work site" (Burbridge 2022, 65). This reflects in the tendency of visual technologies to continue to broaden what can be visualised, even though the visual itself diminished more and more. (Dewdney 2022, 30).

The networked image emerges as a mediator between opposite modes of visuality ([[Signifying Semiotics]]vs.[[A-Signifying Semiotics]]), between different currencies (cultural, commercial, social), between different codes (visual and semantic), and between different languages (human and computational). Therefore it is engages in various practices that belong to micro (granular), meso (personal), and macro (planetary) scales. If one is determined to come up with ways that can influence the elusive and entangled contemporary networked culture and its politics and aesthetics, then they should pay attention to how the image performs on all of those scales, seek for the gaps in-between, and open up wiggle room for intervention within them (Tendone 2022, 148). Ultimately, what is at stake in this process is how knowledge is produced, distributed, and accounted for in our unfamiliar contemporary environment, defined by radically different social relations and cultural forms (Center for the Study of the Networked Image 2021, 43). 
