Just like movie directors, Renderillas and Oraxotans perform their own kind of framing - picking the right view, choosing the right textures, adjusting the light, selecting the actors in the scene, etc. As Deleuze (1997, p.18) explains, “Framing is the art of choosing the parts of all kinds, which become part of a set.” However, he continues to add that the [[Set]] is an artificially closed system which performs an “informatic” role, communicating through its constitutive parts with the audience. Unlike other set designers, the architectural worker-[[Primate]] has to assemble its set within an [[Ultra-stable]], closed system, and in such systems what is often more important is not what makes the cut, but rather what remains consciously overlooked. As we have already shown, in architectural [[Representation]], that is almost everything of contemporary value. Needless to say, practices of framing that constitute extremely closed systems are only aggravating the alienated ([[Alienation]]) state of the profession and distance it even further from the actual problems that need to be addressed. What interests me is precisely what lies beyond the frame - the “out-of-field” - that which remains neither seen nor understood, yet very much present (Deleuze 1997, 15). In an architectural context that would be defined by the shortcomings of representational modes of production - any processes that it is impossible to encapsulate. Although revered for its capability to materialise architectural thought, representation fails to acknowledge the processes and forces that shape it. When it comes to capturing the design process, with all its twists, turns, iterations and justifications, the shortcomings of pictorial practices are notorious. Therefore any social, political, environmental, economic or personal intricacies are systematically obscured into the out-of-field. To tackle the out-of-field that remains beyond the frame of representation is very much an act of “deframing", or [[Elucidating+]]. That is to explore what processes have been consciously left out and what networks lay beyond or behind the initial framing. To elucidate means to engage in practices that see more and see differently, and therefore remember more, and remember differently.
