My argument so far has been that architectural [[Representation]] has spiralled into a rigid, self-referential, alienating practice which tends to rely on fixed essences to guarantee rightness, hence constituting a dogmatic image of thought that systematically excludes any socio-political, environmental, personal, or economic intricacies. So, if we accept that the aesthetic norms of architectural [[Representation]] delimit contemporary practice, I propose the notion of performativity as a counter-action that "can work to “unframe” the messy embodiment that constitutes our relationship to spaces and things" (Jones 2013, 56). 
 
From the very beginning, it is important to make a distinction between the notions of "performance" and "performativity". While both of them emphasise action and liminality over commodifiable objects and fixity, the latter is not confined to the theatrical implications of the former. Performativity, unlike performance, is not a strictly artistic endeavour, rather, it opens up artworks as social practice to the relations and interrelations—the performances of everyday life and culture—in which they are embedded" (Bagnall 2013, 429). Panos Kouros (2012, 45-6) compliments this understanding by highlighting that performance connotes an immediate relation of subjects active in the present, and is characterised by an event whose experience is more important than its documentation. By contrast, performativity is connected to iterability and the recycling of actions, "It refers to actions that establish a reality based on the iteration or displacement of (social) conventions" (Kouros 2012, 45-6).

To get into the performative spirit emphasise the mundane and examine backgrounds and sites that fall outside common awareness where relational activity takes place. Engage with the unknowable, and accept the uneasiness and anxiety that come with experience that is unpredictable, otherwise, you will be back where you started looking at what is already recognisable and known ([[Precedent]]). The goal is not a prohibition of representation and its various forms, but rather their re-situation. Performativity becomes the presentation of potentialities by thinking less about re-presenting what you already know based on accepted norms and conventions; when you stop speaking for or about, but think with our surroundings (Frichot 2019, 117).

In this light, the performative approach provides an alternative to the traditional way of production, where [[Architectural Output]] is conditioned by the application of [[Hylomorphic Schemas]] and rigid, and reductive, representational means over the open systems that comprise out lived spaces. This provides an "opportunity to work with complexity from the inside instead of reducing it to something orderly, predictable, and manageable in advance" (Zones Urbaines Sensibles, 15). Therefore it proposes a shift from the [[Ultra-stable]] systems, which are incapable of incorporating contingency and [[Second-Order Effects]], to meta-stable systems of production that can accommodate and acknowledge the contingent nature of the open systems that architecture is entangled in. This approach is much more suitable for navigating complexity from within. Such transition requires the moving away from the desire to understand singular parts towards the systemic understanding of the linkages between them, and therefore grasp the relational principles of the larger system. Arguably, this "performative repository", which you are exploring right now, aims to do just that. It follows that, in this paradigm, change becomes an "emerging property that cannot be predicted or planned for in a linear fashion" (Aquino and Lampheuy 2024, 3). 

<p align= "center">Don’t think of it as an arrival, instead, think of it as a door toward uncertainty where meaning must be understood as always yet to come rather than as residing in some preexisting repository of language (Evans 1984, 480). </p>

However, if the performative approach has any future viability, it requires modes of archiving and interpretative models that can analyse and historicise, which are just as capable of accommodating action and contingency (Jones 2013, 56). The alternative to the traditional [[Archive]] is, of course, the "performative archive", where the archival entries should be accessible as reusable data that lends itself for further editing. In the process of addition, reproduction, and alteration, such structures allow for the possibility of "contesting co-utterances." As a result the the project attains new meaning as a dynamic and elastic frame that can produce and support series of projects that are a part of it (Kouros 41;45;49)

This definition of a performative archive is implemented in the notion of [[Hosting]], which I have embraced and implemented "Booklet of [[Exercises]] in Visual Literacy". Knowledge production in this case is strictly related to experience and allows for contingent forces to infiltrate the process. Unlike recording or representing, hosting is capable of encompassing the entirety of an event, with all its intricacies, and allows for its future repetitions which can produce different outcomes. Contrary to conventional archival practices, it can activate non-representational modes of learning which happen through doing. In a traditionally non-representational spirit, hosting emphasises the mundane, the ephemeral, and the playful nature of knowledge production which embraces the indeterminacy of final results. It is satisfied only with the act of setting up the conditions ([[Set]]s) that allow for performative action to take place. Prioritising practice over results, this approach aims to distance itself from the polished and static architectural image-object and emphasises the importance of the relational activities that take place in a network, rather than the singularities that it consists of.

Implemented in the grittiness of physical space, the performative approach can take the form of the practice of "something doing" - "when something does, new relational fields are forming, and with them, new modes of existence" and new sensibilities that lay beyond the thinkable, and erupt from the unthinkable (Manning 2016,  66). Doing in this context is not about reaching a final destination or the production of finished objects, it is about setting things in motion where one action can lead to the next. In the process "the norms and values that have brought the system, process, or place to a standstill" can be questioned, examined, and reconsidered (Zones Urbaines Sensibles 2019, 14). 

One step further, this time in a strictly architectural sense, the performative architectural object "resembles an open-ended conversation which acknowledges that shaping forces will come after the building is finished" (Hall 2020,  81). Embracing the continuity of variation, built forms are seen as remnants of an evolving process, emerging from the contingency of events. In the words of Massumi, "the sign-form fundamentally means nothing", it is meant to stand at the threshold between processes" (Massumi 1998, 2;19). This upholds an understanding that does not regard buildings (or any architectural output) as "finished" upon its physical completion. Instead they come to fruition, realising their full potential, in the minds and actions of those who engage with them (Hall 2020,  81).  



