“like the more common notion of performance, its emphasis on liminality over legibility and change over fixity is effective in placing interpretative emphasis on actions rather than on commodifiable objects. Yet it does not marginalise performance as a narrowly artistic endeavour but rather opens up artworks as social practice to the relations and interrelations—the performances of everyday life and culture—in which they are embedded" (Bagnall 2013, 429). 

"Thinking on one's feet provides an opportunity to work with complexity from the inside instead of reducing it to something orderly, predictable, and manageable in advance" (Zones Urbaines Sensibles, 15).


"If the aesthetic frames and delimits, then performance can work to “unframe” the messy embodiment that constitutes our relationship to spaces and things, but only if the interpretive models we employ to analyse and historicise it remain equally active and open to contingency" (Jones 2013, 56).

Knowledge production in this case is strictly related to experience and allows for contingent forces to infiltrate the process. Unlike recording or representing, hosting is capable of encompassing the entirety of an event, with all its intricacies, and allows for its future repetitions which can produce different outcomes. Contrary to conventional archival practices, it can activate non-representational modes of learning which happen through doing. In a traditionally non-representational spirit, hosting emphasises the mundane, the ephemeral, and the playful nature of knowledge production which embraces the indeterminacy of final results. It is satisfied only with the act of setting up the conditions (sets) that allow for performative action to take place. Prioritising practice over results, this approach aims to distance itself from the polished and static architectural image-object and emphasises the importance of the relational activities that take place in a network, rather than the singularities that it consists of.

Emphasise the mundane, examine backgrounds and sites that fall outside common awareness where relational activity takes place. Engage with the unknowable, and accept the uneasiness and anxiety that come with experience that is unpredictable, otherwise, you will be back where you started looking at what is already recognisable and known. Not a prohibition against representation and its various forms, but rather their re-situation. Representation becomes presentation (of potentialities) when you think less about representing what you already know based on accepted norms and conventions, when you stop speaking for or about, but think with.

Emphasise and catalyse experiential potential rather than meaning by setting up possibilities for “something doing” - "when something does, new relational fields are forming, and with them, new modes of existence" and new sensibilities that lay beyond the thinkable, and erupt from the unthinkable (Manning 2016,  66). "Doing is not about effect, it is about kickstarting learning ability" (Zones Urbaines Sensibles 2019, 14). "At best, one action can lead to the next, setting in motion of chain of doing and thinking which encourages the reconsideration of the norms and values that have brought the system, process, or place to a standstill" (Zones Urbaines Sensibles 2019, 14). 
Education is that which "enables intelligence to dissolve and recreate its own habits, to imagine the multiplicity of possibilities, to put knowledge to the test of action and thus to act independently from official norms" (Raman 2022, 1). 
Don’t think of it as an arrival, instead, think of it as a door toward uncertainty where meaning must be understood as always yet to come rather than as residing in some preexisting repository of language (Evans 1984, 480).
The thing becomes interesting when a gathering forms in its vicinity, something arouses the attention of those gathered, there is some controversy at hand or there is some shared work to be done (Frichot 2019, 93).

"Fretton’s work has been described as a kind of ‘open-ended conversation which acknowledges that shaping forces will come after the building is finished, to accommodate them before they are known and in doing so to recognise that architecture is only the start, that buildings and cities come to full realisation in the minds and actions of others" (Hall 2020,  81). Undergoing continuous variation, emerging from the contingency of events, "the sign-form fundamentally means nothing", it is meant to stand at the threshold between processes (Massumi 1998, 19). "When the focus shifts to continuity of variation, still-standing form appears as residue of a process of change. In other words, built form could be designed to make the “accidental” a necessary part of the experience of looking at it or dwelling in it. The building would not be considered an end-form so much as a beginning of a new process" (Massumi 1998, 2).


