In his essay “Everything is Already an Image” John May makes the compelling argument that we are way past orthographic production, and in fact producing in a post-orthographic regime. Meaning, that there is no longer such a thing as an “architectural drawing” due to the absence of its “technical-gestural basis" (May, 2017, 20) . The new production and post-production tools have displaced the orthographic “technical-gestural basis” and are radically different in their production, however, they are accepted as its successor solely based on the visual similarity of the output. When it comes to architectural production, we rarely ever produce anything that leaves the office in a shape other than an [[Image]]. In that sense, architectural output has been boiled down to the process of image production, because regardless of whether we make sketches, plans, renders, models or clay figures, they inevitably end up in files, scans, or pictures, and therefore images. The term “drawing”, which we apply to both notational and affective output, is only a remnant from an orthographic past, a signpost of familiarity, a vital element of comprehension, that helps us cope in the face of unfamiliar conditions, that is our technical milieu. Image is everything in architecture, and everything is already an image.

The main problem outlined by May is not merely the necessity to change our terminology, but the importance of acknowledging our inability to comprehend our tools, surroundings, and the[[Technological Substructures]] that support them. It is not that important whether we call something an “[[Image]]” or a “drawing” unless we move away from the traditional understanding of how those perform. In their current apprehension within [[Contemporary Architectural Labour]], both terms are embedded in a traditional understanding of [[Signifying Semiotics]], and therefore, operate in a similar way. What matters is acknowledging that [[Architectural Output]] is produced and proliferates in a radically different milieu, no longer reducible to our traditional understanding of signifying semiotics, and incorporating a much wider range of agents that influence the production of a [[Networked Image]]. These new factors have radically exposed and inflated the fundamental ontology of images (Mitchell, 2005, p.97). The longer we refuse to lift the veil of familiarity, the longer it is going to take to realise that architectural output is part of a much larger ecology of images, and as such it is subject to the processes that come with it. Failure to acknowledge such processes makes architects incapable of grasping the onto-epistemology of the outcomes they produce, rendering them illiterate, a-political, and effectively disconnected from and oblivious of their surroundings, hence, the accuracy of the [[Primate]] comparison. The outlined condition above is an example par excellence of what Gilbert Simondon understood as "[[Alienation]]”. 

