Mathematically constructed perspective and iconographic plans rendered reality operational which coagulates in the constitution of the project where extraction of profit from everything was possible only if everything was planned accordingly (Aurieli 2023, 56). "The project therefore represented not only the authority of the architect but also a wider apparatus in which politics and economics﻿ merged as one force" (Aurieli 2023, ix). "With the commodification and financialisation of building processes, architecture was transformed into a built register of economic interests, which was enabled in the first place by the mathematisation and quantification of physical space and following, the modern city becomes nothing more than a machine for the extraction of surplus value" (Aurieli 2023, ix). An example of this operationalisation tool is the diagram which for 20th century philosophers Foucault, Deleuze, and Guattari "has nothing to do with [[Representation]], rather the diagram is what it does: it makes an instance of power not only legible but effective" (Aurieli 2023, 22). Similarly, "[[Linear Perspective]] not only transforms space, but also introduces the notion of a linear time, which allows mathematical prediction and, with it, linear progress and a view onto a calculable future" (Steyerl 2012, 18).

"Planning and standardisation are not simply a process of rationalisation but a way to gear social organisation to the logic of production and profit" (Aurieli 2023, xvi). Therefore, "abstraction is ultimately the outcome not only of technocratic organisation but also in the hegemony of exchange value: a process in which everything that exists is subject to a system of representation that allows quantification and calculation of profit" (Aurieli 2023, xvi). "The possibility of mathematically constructed space meant that everything in existence could fall under the rule of measure" (Aurieli 2023, 51). "Introductory procedures, cartography, statistics, and building codes translate the concrete, lived experience of reality into the certainty of data" (Aurieli 2023, 86). "The deployment of the grid is thus the clearest example of how geometry supported ownership by allowing not only the neat division of the land is measurable parcels, but also the abstraction of land into monetary value underscored by the law" (Aurieli 2023, 99). What followed from this was the abandoning of the idea of the city as a political entity in favour of an all-encompassing technocratic system of houses, mobility, and industry (Aurieli 2023, 116).

- Commodification 
"Durand’s prescriptive method, where architecture is deconstructed into its constituent elements, results in the deskilling of design. What Durant offers is an economy of form to professionals who have to design architecture in great quantities" (Aurieli 2023, 81). In the terraced house, architecture was reduced to an object, and this exposed objecthood was the product of abstract economic facts, where architecture becomes relevant only at its most generic, reduced to mutable partitions installed and dismantled as needed (Aurieli 2023,135; 161).

Accordingly, in order to become a commodity, space must have been subjected to systems of representation and procedures that allow it to be divided, measured, and compared (Stanek 2008, 70-1).


[[index]]