Mathematically constructed perspectives, orthographic projections, and iconographic plans rendered reality operational and pliable from a distance (Aurieli 2023, 56). Planning and standardisation extend beyond rationalisation to align social organisation with the logic of production and profit (Aurieli 2023, xvi). Thus, [[Abstraction]] results not only from technocratic organisation but also from the dominance of exchange value, where the advent of matemathically constructed space allowed for everything to be measured and controlled, and therefore fall under its rule. In other words, "in order to become a commodity, space must have been subjected to systems of representation and procedures that allow it to be divided, measured, and compared" (Stanek 2008, 70-1).  Therefore, the project became a symbol not only of the architect's authority but also a broader system where politics and economics converged into a single entity (Aurieli 2023, ix). 

An example of this operationalisation is the diagram which for 20th century philosophers Foucault, Deleuze, and Guattari "has nothing to do with [[Representation]], rather the diagram is what it does: it makes an instance of power not only legible but effective" (Aurieli 2023, 22). Similarly, "[[Linear Perspective]] not only transforms space, but also introduces the notion of a linear time, which allows mathematical prediction and, with it, linear progress and a view onto a calculable future" (Steyerl 2012, 18). Through the application of reductive, humanly understandable,  [[Hylomorphic Schemas]], architectural [[Representation]] declared its [[Complicity]] to the processes of capital accumulation. What followed from possibility to quantify physical space and yield it was, "the abandoning of the idea of the city as a political entity in favour of an all-encompassing technocratic system of houses, mobility, and industry" (Aurieli 2023, 116).

