In the rampant exploitation of [[Affect]] many have identified a steady convergence between architectural [[Representation]] and marketing strategies, up to the point where the boundaries between the two have been smudged. This is evident in the tendency to easily reduce [[Architectural Output (Project+)]] to recognisable icons and totalising images (Søberg, 2019, p.189). In this regard, architectural imagery is growing increasingly similar to the “vulgar” modes of imaging as Mitchell (2005, p.39) calls them - commercials, propaganda etc. - and their blunt and unapologetic expression of desire. And just like such, in their ubiquity and commodification, the “ceaseless bombardment of unrelated imagery” intended for the postponement of boredom that Pallasmaa describes (2012, p.35), is a continuous subject of reproduction, reformatting and recycling. Increasingly more accessible, only a few clicks away, the perpetual waves of [[Image]]s become a main source of “inspiration”, templates for what is acceptable or in style, and shape what David Joselit calls “the epistemology and aesthetics of the search engine.” In his book “After Art” Joselit explains that in the ecology of images  and the networks that shape them, the traditional source of value for images has been subverted. No longer is the value of an image equated to its contribution to the introduction of novel concepts, opening up of new views, or creation of content not yet seen. Rather, an image accumulates value through its capacity to contain or gather as many intelligible patterns that open it up to connections with a larger amount of other images, concepts, systems, movements etc. Hence, the increasing popularity of reframing and reiterating content with slight variations. Just like in a Google search, when an image enters the enormous network of information, the more connections (results) it makes, the better. What has become blatantly evident in [[Media +]] platforms such as Pinterest, Instagram, or any architectural journal is how architectural production, but also artistic or any sort of design output, is mimicking the operational structures of search algorithms, and simply “reformat existing streams of images and information” (Joselit, 2013, p.58). In this endless repetition and recycling, architectural [[Representation]] is stuck mirroring its own problems, restlessly abusing its own traditions (Frampton and Cava, 2001, p.26) and becoming more and more [[Self-referential +]], disconnected, dare I say ... alienated ([[Alienation]]).

"In economies of image overproduction connectivity is key. What now matters most is not the production of new content but its retrieval in intelligible patterns through acts of reframing, capturing, reiterating, and documenting. What is seen as productive or valuable is how widely and easily images connect: not only to messages, but to other social currencies like capital, real estate, politics, and so on" (Joselit 2013, 56). "This explains why contemporary art marginalises the production of content in favour of producing new formats for existing images, and it accounts for the strategies of a wide range of architects who generate space through the analysis and formation, or shaping, of data. Like such search algorithms, art and architecture reformat existing streams of images and information. They practice both an epistemology and an aesthetics of the search engine" (Joselit 2013, 58). "But images are also, notoriously, a drink that fails to satisfy our thirst. The main function is to awaken desire; to create, not gratified thirst; to provoke a sense of lack in craving by giving us the apparent presence of something and taking it away in the same gesture" (Mitchell 2005, 80)."Rather than an exhaustion of the image, an increasingly insatiable thirst is generated towards the ever more rapacious consumption of images. The result is exhaustive combinatorials of images, each, in turn, depending on the fact that previous images in a series of consumption are only partially recalled" (Frichot 2016, 187).

- the idea of the [[Precedent (Recognition) +]] and that what has already been done is feasible 
- Architecture becomes [[Self-referential +]] => buildings are representing other buildings, transferring their history and myths to the new
- Pinterest and Instagram provide and therefore create a need for endless production of new imagery among other [[Media +]] platforms - an increasingly insatiable thirst for images => exhaustive combinatorials of images, partially recalling previous images.
- capacity to produce [[Visual Bonds +]]
 
