In the rampant exploitation of [[Affect]] many have identified a steady convergence between architectural [[Representation]] and marketing strategies, up to the point where the boundaries between the two have been smudged. This is evident in the tendency to easily reduce [[Architectural Output]] to recognisable icons and totalising images (Søberg, 2019, p.189). In this regard, architectural imagery is growing increasingly similar to the “vulgar” modes of imaging as Mitchell (2005, p.39) calls them - commercials, propaganda etc. - and their blunt and unapologetic expression of desire. And just like such, in their ubiquity and commodification, the “ceaseless bombardment of unrelated imagery” intended for the postponement of boredom that Pallasmaa describes (2012, p.35), is a continuous subject of reproduction, reformatting and recycling. Increasingly more accessible, only a few clicks away, the perpetual waves of [[Image]]s become a main source of “inspiration” in the form of online archives of [[Precedent (Recognition) +]]s that act as templates for what is acceptable or in style, shaping what David Joselit calls “the epistemology and aesthetics of the search engine.” 

In his book “After Art” Joselit explains that in the ecology of images  and the networks that shape them, the traditional source of value for images has been subverted. No longer is the value of an image equated to its contribution to the introduction of novel concepts, opening up of new views, or creation of content not yet seen. Rather, an image accumulates value through its capacity to contain or gather as many intelligible patterns that open it up to connections with a larger amount of other images, concepts, systems, movements etc, exploiting their capacity to produce [[Visual Bonds +]]. Images often leave us wanting more, as they awaken desires but fail to fully satisfy them. They create a sense of longing by presenting something only to take it away almost immediately (Mitchell 2005, 80). This leads to an insatiable craving for more images, driving us to consume them rapaciously. As a result, we engage in endless combinations of images, each new image relying on the partial memory of those previously consumed (Frichot 2016, 187). Hence, the increasing popularity of reframing and reiterating content with slight variations. Just like in a Google search, when an image enters the enormous network of information, the more connections (results) it makes, the better. What has become blatantly evident in [[Media +]] platforms such as Pinterest, Instagram, or any architectural journal is how architectural production, but also artistic or any sort of design output, is mimicking the operational structures of search algorithms, and simply “reformat existing streams of images and information” (Joselit, 2013, p.58). In this endless repetition and recycling, architectural [[Representation]] is stuck mirroring its own problems, restlessly abusing its own traditions (Frampton and Cava, 2001, p.26) and becoming more and more [[Self-referential +]], disconnected, dare I say ... alienated ([[Alienation]]).
