Much has been said about architectural representation and my goal here is not to delve deeper into the annals of its production, significance, or graphic qualities. One thing, however, has been made pretty clear in the accounts that venture into such historical analysis. Ever since the introduction of [[Linear Perspective]] and its documentation in Leon Battista Alberti’s “De Pictura” there has been a gradual rise in the importance of architectural representation over the past centuries. This development has come to the point where it has become the established norm of [[Architectural Output]] due to its highly valuable communicational and [[Affect]]ive capacities. Representation’s efficacy in translating architectural thought into built objects has become essential in today’s economy reliant on the division of labour, where the architect is exclusively focused on the project, rather than on its execution which is handed off to construction specialists. In its affectionate state, representation serves as a form of visual persuasion that communicates architectural vision and incites desire, longing, and anticipation within the viewers, therefore actively participating in the sourcing of funding, validation of future outcomes, and gaining public appreciation or approval. Those qualities make representation an invaluable tool for architects and it should be no surprise that it has become the bread of butter of [[Contemporary Architectural Labour]].

Although a perfect fit, the relationship architect-representation is not so straightforward and unproblematic. The obsessive fascination with architectural [[Image]]ry, and the volumes written on guidelines, creative properties, usefulness, and semiotic importance, architects and scholars have established a cult surrounding representation and its inextricable relation to architecture’s essence, resulting in an [[Image-Object Fixation]]. Focusing on the perpetuation of knowledge and guarding the principles of production and appearance, has exposed its [[Self-referential]] nature and it has resulted in a canonical set of rules effectively fortifying the profession. Instead of resorting to iconoclastic gestures, the more important question to ask is, how come have we ended up in a vicious circle, that keeps closing in on itself, endlessly repeating what is “right”, unable to permit anything foreign into its boundaries, and therefore strengthening a [[Dogmatic Image of Thought]].

As Kent Fitzsimons (2010, p.16) points out, within the regulating and disciplinary mechanisms of the built environment, drawing, or at least what used to be drawing ([[Post-orthographic]]), serves as an apparatus for the continuation of knowledge. All the tools and means of production, from set squares and perspectives to CAD and BIM, are a form of [[Mnemotechnics]]. Hundreds of years of refinement and concretisation have led to the formulation of a set of axioms that ensure a certain guarantee of rightness that are akin to what Robin Evans refers to as the conception of architecture as “an attempt at maximum preservation in which both meaning and likeness are transported from idea, through drawing, to building with minimum loss” (Evans, 1986, p.14) Albeit undeniably useful, the indoctrination of such axiomatic thinking, when used hastily, can install a fake sense of [[(Re)Assurance]].

Although revered for its capability to materialise architectural thought, representation fails to acknowledge the processes and forces that shape it. When it comes to capturing the design process, with all its twists, turns, iterations and justifications, the shortcomings of pictorial practices are notorious. As Albena Yaneva and Bruno Latour point out in their essay “Give Me a Gun and I Will Make All Buildings Move”, the paradox of the atmospheric render is that it simultaneously presents a highly realistic and unrealistic representation of the environment. Despite the extreme verisimilitude of the architectural object itself or its surroundings, representation fails when it comes to the inclusion of conflicting demands, planning and legal constraints, budgeting, successive models and proposals, stakeholders, users, neighbours etc (Latour and Yaneva, 2017, p.105). Following Kiel Moe’s argument laid out in his essay “Metabolic Rift, Gift and Shift”, buildings are an assemblage of a vast amount of energy, information, and matter. This triggers a series of questions regarding what remains outside the scope of representation. What about materials concerning their extraction and transportation? What about political, ethical, and social issues? What about profit margins? What about environmental impact? What about discriminatory and exploitative labour practices? All these “impurities” evade representation. As architects, we are just as responsible for the exclusions as for the inclusion we choose to make. Going back to Deleuze and his investigation of cinematic practices, he introduces an interesting term which is the residue of the process of “framing”. He calls it the “[[Out-of-field]]” -  that which remains “neither seen nor understood, but is nevertheless perfectly present” (Deleuze, 1997, p.16) or in our case, everything left out of the representational borders is extradited to the realm of the "Out-of-field". Hence, my research will focus on exploring ways of [[Elucidating]] the important  practices that have been disregarded by traditional representation, and therefore making visible or sensible the intricacies that play formative roles in the design process. 
