The act of representation, which has a crucial role in the articulation of architecture, can sometimes lose its original purpose and become an end in itself. Consequently, it separates from what it represents and begins to refer only to itself (Agrest 2000, 165). The revived interest in architectural drawings made them more consumable and self-referential, in the sense that they are less concerned with what they represent than with their own constitution (Evans 1986, 5). Propelled by the speed and efficacy of new [[Media]], architecture becomes more and more obsessed with itself and buildings start to represent other buildings, "thus transferring their history and myths to the new" (Agrest 2000, 172) . It is this self-referential tendency through which architecture increasingly engages with its own problems, which becomes controversial given the claims of social and public engagement it enunciates. Confined in its self-evidence, the current condition of architectural [[Representation]], defined by [[Hylomorphic Schemas]], remains “detached to an almost absolute degree from the spatial phenomena it wishes to examine and produce”(Kousoulas, 2022, p.27). The overemphasis on self-reference, driven by reliance on [[Precedent]]s, strengthens the prevalent [[Dogmatic Image of Thought]] and leads to a disconnection from external realities and a focus on internal discourse, raising questions about architecture's social relevance and competency to initiate any meaningful change. This conditions a case of [[Alienation]] par excellence.

A possible explanation for this tendency is the incapacity of the building industry, let alone architecture, to respond adequately to the rapacious megalopolitan proliferation. Keneth Frampton (2001,24) notes, that "where technology, as the maximization of industrial production and consumption, merely serves to exacerbate the magnitude of this proliferation, architecture as craft and as an act of place creation is excluded from the process." Here, however, an interesting paradox occurs. Although regarded almost as an afterthought to the formative urban processes, architecture's growing popularity has been growing inversely proportional. Arguably architecture has never been more popular. Obviously this can be credited to [[Contemporaneity]] and the proliferation of [[Image]]s in online [[Media]]. However, I identify introspective desire of current practice to be a consequence of the overwhelming feeling of "political powerlessness and cultural disillusionment many architects feel about their effective contribution to the built world"(Oxvig 2019, 174). Unfortunately, as a way to compensate for that, looking for meaning that can justify their career choice, architects have decided to face inwards. 