It is in the polishing, careful arrangement, and sanitisation of architectural output that I also draw another connection, this time to the act of “framing” and “moulding” which Deleuze explores in “Cinema 1: The Movement-Image”. I find a striking resemblance in the processes that precede both acts and the processes that are employed when producing architectural [[Image]]ry. Deleuze associates the act of moulding with photography, as it “organises the internal forces of the thing in such a way that they reach a state of equilibrium at a certain instant (immobile section).” It is precisely the immobility of the moulded state that resonates with the prevalent mode of [[Architectural Output]], which is later on translated to the actual outcome in the form of a built edifice and reflected in the problematic [[Image-Object Fixation]]. The act of framing defined as “ the art of choosing the parts of all kinds which became part of a set” is again evocative of the curatorial process of picking the right people, textures, cars etc. in a visualisation or an [[Any-space-whatsoever]]. The sets themselves are “closed systems which are defined by discernible objects or distinct parts”. Deleuze identifies “the shot” as the element that breaks the deadlock of the moulded set. It is the force that presents the changing relations and modified dependencies within the set or between sets. However, this force is missing in architectural practices. In their moulded state, the relationships remain stagnant, refusing to acknowledge the external forces that will immediately influence the fragile equilibrium within the sanitised set, if it ever manages to be actualised. 

Architectural [[Representation]] possesses all the qualities of a set, it is an artificially closed system, it is defined by the discernible object and distinctive parts that constitute it, and importantly it is defined by a frame. What lies beyond the frame is the “[[Out-of-field]]” - that which remains neither seen nor understood, yet very much present. To tackle the out-of-field that remains beyond the frame of representation is very much an act of “deframing” or as Deleuze describes it the confirmation that “the visual image has a legible function beyond its visible function.” That is to explore what processes have been consciously left out and what networks lay beyond or behind the initial framing. To defame is an act of [[Elucidating]], to engage in practices that see more and see differently. 

As a part of my [[Performative]] approach I will aim to create a different kind of an architectural set. One that is not defined by its static appearance, but rather by the actions that it enables.  [[Hosting]] performative action in those sets can reintroduce the "shot" that Deleuze defines as the key element which breaks the standstill of the moulded set. In fact, the "digital garden" which you are currently exploring does just that. In its explorative nature, reliant on your interaction with the singular points in this networks, it links them together in unpredictable ways, generating new storylines with each iteration. Similarly the “Booklet of Exercises in Visual Literacy”, made up of a series of [[Exercises]],  acts as a set, a field, a stage which "awaits events that establish the manner of play, which never repeat exactly" (Stoner 2012, 69), thereby constituting a performative archive.

