Traditional signifying semiotics have a common understanding of [[Image]]s as signs, or as Martin Schwab (2000, p.110) puts it “signs that present their meaning in an iconic mode.” Meaning, that they communicate through structural analogues of what they want to convey, and as a mode of re-presentation rely on mimesis or similarity. This becomes problematic once we try to analyse what images do, rather than what they represent. As Boumesteer points out, "the danger in this reasoning is to assume that images start with their ‘physical’ appearance - if an individual regards an image as an image, then that individual is already primed to see an image" (Boumesteer 2014, 71). To make this clearer, by perceiving the image as a [[Representation]] of something, all other non-cognitive, non-visual potentials are disregarded (Rubinstein and Sluis 2013, 37).

A example that everyone can relate to are photographs. The representational content of photographic images often captures our attention, making it challenging to recognise the photograph's material essence. This difficulty extends to developing a strategic and critical understanding of the social and [[Technological Substructures]] that uphold the photographic image, as described by Katrina Sluis (2018). Photography, in this regard, has long epitomised the operational logic of communicative capitalism, where users tend to focus on the surface-level representational content rather than the materiality of the photograph itself or the intricate systems involved in its production and circulation (Burbridge 2022, 65). Therefore, "to see what the photograph is of, we must first repress our consciousness of what the photograph is" (Burbridge 2022, 64).

To overcome these limitations, there's a call to redefine how we understand images. Rather than constantly interpreting their meanings, there's an interest in defining images by their operational character and what they do (Farocki 2004). This suggests a shift towards understanding images based on their functions and effects within cultural, social, and political contexts, or, in other words towards an understanding of [[A-Signifying Semiotics]].. 



