"We think of images in semiotic terms - as signs or, more precisely, signs that present their meanings in an iconic mode, traditionally understood as representation via similarity or resem­blance. What a picture or image shows us, it does by presenting us with a structural analogue, it ‘re-presents’ something" (Schwab 2000, 110). "The danger in this reasoning is to assume that images start with their ‘physical’ appearance - if an individual regards an image as an image, then that individual is already primed to see an image" (Boumesteer 2014, 71). By accepting the configuration of the image in terms of its visual content, in other words, by viewing the image as a picture of something, all other non-cognitive, non-visual possibilities become suppressed (Rubinstein and Sluis 2013, 37). 

"Batchen highlights those ways in which the representational content of photo- graphic images makes particular appeals to our attention, and how this can make it difficult to recognise what the photograph is in material terms.This can also make it difficult to develop a strategic and critical understanding of what Katrina Sluis (2018) describes as ‘the techno-social infrastructures which sustain the photo- graphic image’. It is in this sense that photography has long exemplified the opera- tive logic of communicative capitalism today, insofar as its users have typically focused on representational content visible on the surface of the photograph – at its visual interface – not the materiality of the photographic object or the systems of production and circulation in which photography is entwined" (Burbridge 2022, 65). "However, to see what the photograph is of, we must first repress our consciousness of what the photograph is" (Burbridge 2022, 64). This requires a shift in focus towards how an image is configured and how it operates. "We have grown weary of the day-to-day practice of re-mythologizing quotidian life, weary of the ever-changing and many-channelled program of images custom-made to mean something to us, therefore we are interested in the operational character of images and defining them by what they do" (Farocki 2004, 18).

