The technological substructures that uphold digital [[Image]]s, though integral to their existence and functionality, largely remain invisible to the end user. This hidden complexity underlies their paradoxical nature, which is at once visible and invisible, present and absent. As Rubinstein and Sluis (2013) note, digital images embody both the linear representational logic of Cartesian space and the recursive nature of algorithms. 

Digital images are supported by a non-representational, socio-technical system, yet they become humanly understandable through [[Representation]]. The functional backend takes the form of the elusive "cloud", which although seemingly ephemeral, has a very significant physical footprint, "The networked image has an infrastructure that requires labour and capital to produce a constant energy source, the mining of raw materials, the manufacture of electronic devices, the launching of space rockets, the construction of server farms, the laying of cables, and the deployment of transmitters and receivers" (Dewdney 2022, 26). This creates a mutual dependency between the representational and non-representational aspects of digital images (Center for the Study of the Networked Image 2021). Their dual nature becomes apparent when approaching contemporary visual studies through the lens of the [[Networked Image]]. Seen from this perspective, while the front end of computing—the legible cultural layer as termed by Lev Manovich—continues to function through representation, the back end—the illegible computer layer— is working towards the [[Industrialisation of the Symbolic]], serving an information economy (Dewdney 2022, 23).

The evolution of visuality into a more-than-visual and non-representational era signifies a shift from the ocular-centric worldview established by the European Enlightenment. Driven by computation, this shift demands new ways of thinking about the human sensorium (Dewdney 2022). In this new paradigm, representational and computational systems function in synergy. Algorithms operate in continuity with representation, ensuring that at the user experience level, the visual integration remains seamless, while at the computational level, images are intertwined with algorithmic software, enabling various transactions (Dewdney 2022, 24). Due to the exterme integration between those systems, "The assumption of a transparent representational relationship between the image and reality is assailed" (Dewdney 2022, 24). This emphasises the importance of [[A-Signifying Semiotics]], which focus on the deeper entanglement of images within complex technical systems, where their true workings lie hidden within the "black box" of computation. It follows that any critique of technical images requires [[Elucidating]] these inner workings in order to avoid remaining visually illiterate (Flusser 2000).


