The paradox springs from the dual nature of the digital image "as it is based upon a non-representational, socio-technical system but is made humanly understandable through representation, in which the representational and non-representational are mutually dependent" (Center for the Study of the Networked Image 2021, 42). "This change from digital to networked image has occurred because, while the front end of computing, what Lev Manovich termed the legible cultural layer is still realised as representation, the backend of computing, the illegible computer layer, has developed an infrastructure on an industrial scale, serving an information economy" (Dewdney 2022, 23). "Visuality has entered a decisive era of the more than visual and nonrepresentational in which an ocular-centric worldview, which previously devolved upon the mechanical eye, has been overturned by the operations of data and signalling. The ways of seeing, established by the European Enlightenment and its humanist tradition, have been rewired by computation and now demand new ways of thinking about visuality, temporality and the human sensorium"(Dewdney 2022, 24). "Representational and computational paradigms now function as a perfect synergy, because the algorithmic has evolved to operate in continuity with representation. At the level of user experience, the integration of vision and representation remains intact, and at the computational level, the image is integrated with software, making transactions possible" (Dewdney 2022, 28). "Representation, now as the screen image, constitutes the continuity of the legible symbolic logic of visuality, even while visuality functions as a derivative in the operations of the network" (Dewdney 2022, 28). "The assumption of a transparent representational relationship between the image and reality is assailed" (Dewdney 2022, 24). "The encoding of technical images, however, is what is going on in the interior of this black box and consequently, any criticism of technical images must be aimed at an elucidation of its inner workings, otherwise, we shall remain illiterate" (Flusser 2000, 16).

"The paradox of this moment of the visual in culture is that the networked image operates in two simultaneously perceptual/cognitive registers, one propping up an established code of visuality, the other busily undermining it. The observable screen image and the signalised image are coupled in the algorithmic image but have different destinations. The screen image drives towards satisfying the socius and with its desire and the unconscious, while the signalised image drives towards optimal financialisaton, capital and exchange.This is another way of putting Mackenzie and Munster’s point that visual technologies and practices continue to expand what can be visualised, even as the visual itself is being evacuated" (Dewdney 2022, 30).

"As the product of pluralism and multiplicity, the digital image is no doubt a paradoxical object (if it is an object): neither visible nor invisible, neither fully present nor absent, embodying both the linear representational logic of the Cartesian space and the recursivity of the algorithm" (Rubinstein and Sluis 2013, 37).

"The present ‘frenzy’ of image making and the parallel decline of visual knowledge is related to the paradox of software Chun describes. This is due to two competing phenomena: the proliferation of digital images and visual culture and the decline in the transparency of total information systems (Chun 2011: 15)" (Rubinstein and Sluis 2013, 32).

[[Industrialisation of the Symbolic]]